Full text of "The Fourth Disease (Filatow-Dukes' Disease)"
See other formats
STOP 



Early Journal Content on JSTOR, Free to Anyone in the World 

This article is one of nearly 500,000 scholarly works digitized and made freely available to everyone in 
the world byJSTOR. 

Known as the Early Journal Content, this set of works include research articles, news, letters, and other 
writings published in more than 200 of the oldest leading academic journals. The works date from the 
mid-seventeenth to the early twentieth centuries. 

We encourage people to read and share the Early Journal Content openly and to tell others that this 
resource exists. People may post this content online or redistribute in any way for non-commercial 
purposes. 

Read more about Early Journal Content at http://about.istor.org/participate-istor/individuals/early- 
journal-content . 



JSTOR is a digital library of academic journals, books, and primary source objects. JSTOR helps people 
discover, use, and build upon a wide range of content through a powerful research and teaching 
platform, and preserves this content for future generations. JSTOR is part of ITHAKA, a not-for-profit 
organization that also includes Ithaka S+R and Portico. For more information about JSTOR, please 
contact support@jstor.org. 



PUBLIC HEALTH REPORTS. 



UNITED STATES. 

THE FOURTH DISEASE (FILATOW-DUKES' DISEASE). 

By Passed Asst. Surg. J. W. Sclierescliewsky, j»ublk- Health and Marine-Hiispital Service. 

The recent unusual prevalence of exanthematous diseases in dif- 
ferent cities throughout the country and the occasional report of 
a fourth disease have called renewed attention to the entity of this 
latter symptom-complex. 

By the term fourth disease we understand an eruptive fever 
described by several authors, the exanthem of which assimilates 
closely the appearance of that of scarlet fever, but which differs from 
the latter disease chiefly in the length of its period of incubation, the 
mildness of its invasion, the benignity of its course, the absence of 
complications, the character and length of the period of desquamation, 
the brief duration, of its infectivity, and finally in that it does not 
confer immunity to other exanthematous diseases. 

Historical Summary. — While the clinical pictures conveyed by the 
descriptions extant of measles and scarlet fever are of so precise and 
definite a nature as to leave little at present to be accomplished in the 
way of further additions to their symptom-complex, it must be con- 
fessed that the connecting link, as it were, in the chain of the eruptive 
fevers, namely, rubella, has not been, at the present writing, delin- 
eated with the precision and exactitude of its congeners. To say the 
least, there is an absence, even in the best descriptions of this 
disease, of that clarity in the depiction of its clinical features 
which we observe in respect to that of the other exanthemata. The 
accounts, particularly of its eruption, are so confusing and the varia- 
tions described are so wide, as to lend considerable weight to the 
hypothesis presently to be discussed, that this disease, as conceived 
of at present, is capable of resolution into two distinct nosological 
factors — i. e., rubella and a fourth disease. 

Be that as it may, all- who have dealt extensively with the eruptive 
fevers are constantly encountering atypical and anomalous forms of 
exanthems, which they are at a loss to classify. These, perforce, for 
want of a better terminology, they must denominate as abortive scar- 
let fever, scarlatina recidiva, rubella scarlatiniform, and the like. 

The constant occurrence of such cases, in the experience of Clement 
Dukes, who, by reason of his position as chief surgeon to a large 
public school in England, had unusual opportunities for the observa- 
tion of the eruptive fevers, convinced him that for years he had been 

48 (Vol. xxii, No. ]9.) 583 



May 10, 1907 584 

encountering an eniptis-e disorder hitherto confused either witli mild 
scarlatina or with rubella. 

In a communication entitled " On the confusion of two diseases 
under the name of rubella (rose rash) ," which appeared in the London 
Lancet of July 14, 1900, he advanced a strong plea, based upon a 
considerable series of observations, for the recognition of a new spe- 
cific, contagious, exanthematous disease which rendered the affected 
individual immune neither to scarlet fever nor rubella, and which was 
called by him a fourth disease. 

His description deals with an eruptive fever the exanthem of which 
is very similar to and at times indistinguishable from that of scarlet 
fever, but differs mainly from that disease in the following points: 
(1) The period of incubation (9 to 21 days) ; (2) the mildness of the 
invasion; (3) the rapid fading of the eruption; (4) the benignity of 
its course; (5) the absence of the characteristic lingual and faucial 
appearances of scarlet fever; (6) the character of the desquamation 
and length of its period ; ^7) the absence of complications, and finally 
(8) the failure of this disease to confer immunity either to scarlet 
fever or rubella. 

Dukes bases his paper on a series of three epidemics which he ob- 
tserved occurring in a public school. The first consisted of 16 cases 
of this fourth disease. The second consisted of 31 cases of the fourth 
disease concurrently with scarlet fever. The third consisted of I'l) 
cases of the fourth disease, of which cases 42 per cent had suffered the 
previous year from rubella. 

Dukes also states that he had for a long time been familiar with this 
disease in his practice, but owing to the sporadic occurrence of the 
cases and his lack of opportunity properly to correlate the phenomena 
observed, the idea of regarding it as a separate clinical entity did not 
at first present itself to him, and he was wont to content himself with 
a diagnosis of roseola of a scarlatiniform type. 

Dukes calls the disease he has observed "the fourth disease" for 
N\ant of a better name and makes the following conclusions : 

1. That although its resemblance is so close to scarlet fever in many 
features, it can not possess any affinity with that disease, as both 
diseases occurred concurrently in the same epidemic. 

2. That some of the sufferers had both diseases in the same 
epidemic. 

3. That one patient had scarlet fever, followed by " fourth disease." 

4. That several had " fourth disease," followed by scarlet fever. 

5. In one epidemic of this disease nearly one-half the cases had had 
rubella the year before. 

Upon the appearance of Dukes' article, Broadbent unreservedly 
indorsed his views. They were further supported by Romer, Kidd, 
Ashley, and others. On the other hand, Millard, Washbourne, Rut- 
ter, Poynton, Williams, Ker, and at a later date (1902) Griffiths, were 
opposed to the acceptance of the existence of a new disease as advo- 
cated by Dukes, believing cases such as he describes to have been 
either mild scarlatina or rubella. 

The next author to corroborate Dukes' observations was J. J. 
Weaver, medical superintendent of the Southport Borough In- 
fectious Diseases Hospital. Some months before the appearance of 
Dukes' communication he had been struck by a number of apparent 



585 May 10, 1907 

recurrences in cases of scarlet fever, having observed six such recur- 
rences in the space of three months. Impresed by Dukes' arti- 
cle he made a series of careful observations, of which he read a 
report before a meeting of the Eoyal Institute of Public Health at 
Eastborne. This report subsequently appeared in the Journal of 
State Medicine in 1901, and describes fourteen instances of such ap- 
parent recurrences, with the result of confirming Dukes' observations 
in all but the most trivial particulars. Careful clinical charts com- 
piled from these cases form an interesting and instructive study, as 
they disclose the great difference in the clinical severity of the two 
diseases, and from the charts alone it is possible to determine their 
order of precedence. 

Dukes' communication, important as it was, apparently evoked but 
little discussion with the exception of the few brief comments which 
hailed its publication. Apart from Weaver's article, the first to 
support Dukes' contention by actual clinical observations, a search 
through medical literature reveals an almost complete dearth of ref- 
erences to this subject until 1904. 

In this year v. Bokay accepts the existence of the " fourth dis- 
ease," although requiring further clinical observations, and points out 
that, although Dukes is undoubtedly entitled to the credit of bringing 
this matter prominently before the medical world, he was by no 
means the pioneer in the field. A number of years previously N. Fila- 
tow preceded him by publishing in 1885 in the Eusskoi Medicini and 
again in 1896 in a treatise on the acute infectious diseases of child- 
hood, a report in which he details his experience with a hitherto 
undifferentiated exanthematous disease. In view of this v. Bokaj' 
proposes that the fourth disease shall be known as the Filatow- 
Dukes' disease, and concludes by expressing the hope that as rubella 
was separated in the last century from measles so will the fourth 
disease be separated from scarlt fever in this century. 

Filatow's observations on this disease are, by reason of their priority, 
well worth a brief abstract. In 1884 he observed a case of scarlatini- 
form exanthem in a member of a family of 11 children, 3 of whom 
had had scarlet fever in 1882. Seven in all of the family were suc- 
cessively attacked at brief intervals by this eruption, including a 
governess 25 years old, who had had scarlet fever. Filatow, who be- 
lieved the cases to be scarlet fever, surprised at the mild course the 
disease pursued and the prompt recovery made by his patients, con- 
gratulated them on an immunity acquired at the expense of so little 
suffering. Less than a year later, however, he had occasion to revise 
his diagnosis, as scarlet fever again made its appearance in the fam- 
jlj^, attacking a 6-year old girl, who died, and 3 others who had ex- 
hibited the luUest eflSorescence of the exanthem he had noted the 
previous year. 

Filatow therefore concluded that the first eruptive fever he had 
observed was not scarlet fever, but an acute, specific, infectious, and 
contagious disease, characterized by a scarlatiniform exanthem, but 
differing from scarlet fever mainly in its mild, uncomplicated course 
and the peculiarities of its contagion. He suggested the name of 
rubeola scarlatinosa for this disease. 

The year v. Bokay's article ( 1904) appeared both Klein and Euhe- 
mann published short communications detailing similar observations 



May 10, 1907 586 

jn the case of school children who previously, subsequently, or con- 
currently suffered from rubella and scarlet fever. 

Cheinisse, in a carefully considered article, in which he reviews the 
literature of the subject, strongly supports the hypothesis of the 
existence of the fourth disease, thus re'deeming, to a certain extent, 
the indifference of French authors to the subject. 

Unruh's is the most recent and detailed upon the fourth disease. 
In it he refers to numerous cases occurring in his practice among 
school children up to the age of 17 years, who, either from per- 
sonal observation or from a well-authenticated history, he knew to 
have suffered previously from scarlatina or rubella. His description 
of the clinical course of the disease is painstaking and thorough and 
shows a close correspondence to previous accounts. He also dis- 
agrees with the somewhat erroneous conclusion of v. Bokay's article, 
in that he considers the fourth disease to be allied much more closely 
to German measles than to scarlet fever. 

Symptoms. — The accounts of the clinical features of the fourth 
disease, as given by its several bibliographers, show a close corre- 
spondence in details, of which the following is a summary : 

Contagiousness, — The disease is decidedly contagious, but less so 
than either measles or scarlet fever, and the duration of the period of 
transmissibility does not probably exceed fourteen to twenty-one 
days. 

Period of Incubation. — The period of incubation is from nine to 
twenty-one days. In one case in which Unruh was able positively to 
fix the period of incubation it was fifteen days. 

Prodrom,al Sym,ptoms. — Prodromal symptoms are absent in a great 
many cases, the rash being the initial symptom. In severe cases 
they are those of any febrile invasion, such as malaise, headache, 
anorexia, lassitude, and aching pains in the back and extremities. 
Vomiting is extremely rare. 

Catarrhal Symptoms. — These may be absent, but when present con- 
sist of a slight reddening of the oral and palatal mucous membrane, 
a very slight coryza, and trivial pinkness of the conjunctiva. 

Eruption. — The eruption makes its appearance in from twenty- 
four to thirty-six hours after the invasion. Commencing on the 
face, its development is extremely rapid, covering the entire body in 
a few hours. 

The eruption consists of minutely punctate spots, much smaller 
than the papules of rubella and less raised than the eruption of 
measles. The individual points of eruption may, at first, be some- 
what diffuse, but they very soon become closely agminated and are 
bound into large patches by a diffuse erythematous blush. . 

On the face the impression derived by the observer is that of a 
widespread scarlet stain, whose somewhat irregular and serrated 
border is caused by lacunae, uninvaded by the eruption, principally 
around the nasal and oral regions. Passing from the face it is 
distributed over .the entire surra Qe of the body, with the exception 
that is does not show the same predilection for the lower part of the 
abdomen, the inner surfaces of the thighs, and the axillary folds as 
does the exanthem of scarlet fever. On the upper extremities it is 



587 May 10, 1907 

mainly distributed over the extensor surface. The eruption is com- 
monly profuse over the back and nates. 

In tint it resembles the color of the scarlet- fever exanthem. There 
is an absence of that brownish discoloration which we notice in the 
case of measles and rubella prior to the fading of the eruption. On 
the contrary, in the fourth disease the bright tint of the eruption 
is retained up to the time of its disappearance, which occurs after a 
lapse of two to three days, Avith a rapidity commensurable with that 
of its efflorescence. 

During the eruptive period the skin lacks the hot, pungent feel 
characteristic of scarlatina, and the eruption is accompanied by little, 
if any, itching and discomfort. 

With the disappearance of the eruption desquamation usually 
ensues. This is of a fine, branny character, very rarely in large 
flakes or patches, and lasts two weeks at most. 

Temperature. — A febrile reaction is usually present though of a 
mild grade, and bears no relation to the intensity of the eruption. 
The fullest efflorescence may be accompanied by but a trivial eleva- 
tion in the temperature^ 

The highest elevation of temperature observed by Unruh was 39.2 
in a child 2^ years old. The fever, if present, rapidly subsides after 
the outbreak of the eruption, the patient feels entirely well, and is 
kept in bed with difficulty. 

Pulse. — The pulse rate is but little affected by the disease. Unlike 
scarlet fever, in which even in mild cases the pulse is notably accele- 
rated irrespective of the temperature, the number of beats registered 
is relative to the degree of febrile reaction observed. 

Tongue and Fauces. — There is nothing characteristic in the appear- 
ance of the tongue. If the temperature is more than subfebrile, it 
may be slightly coated. There is, however, an entire absence of that 
desquamation of the lingual epithelium which causes the well-known 
" strawberry tongue " of scarlet fever. Sore throat is not complained 
of, nor are there any faucial symptoms observable except a slight 
redenning of the oral and palatal mucous membrane. Koplik's spots 
are not observed. 

Lymfhatic Glands. — Some slight enlargement of the cervical and 
occipital lymph glands, and at an early date, is usually to be made 
out. It is, however, not so constant nor so universal as is the case 
in rubella, nor do the glands ever attain that condition of massive 
enlargement and induration nor break down and suppurate, as is 
often the case in scarlet fever. 

Course, complications, and sequelce. — The course of the disease 
is uniformly mild. Most patiente do not complain of feeling ill at 
all and do not willingly remain in bed. Complications and sequel* 
have not been observed, although Unruh records one instance in 
which a slight, transient albuminuria was observed at the height of 
fever. 

Diagnosis. — It must be confessed that the differentiation of a dis- 
ease of this character from mild scarlet fever can not always be easy. 
Unruh admits that at first he was greatly assisted in the diagnosis 
by his own knowledge of previous attacks of rubella and scarlatina. 



May 10, 1907 588 

Later, as he acquired greater familiarity with its clinical aspect, he 
says he had no difficulty in recognizing it when present. 

As aids in distinguishing the fourth disease from scarlet fever, 
can be mentioned: The period of incubation (9 to 21 days), when 
this can be ascertained ; the knowledge of previous attacks of scarlet 
fever; the mildness of the symptoms of invasion; the absence of 
vomiting, anginose symptoms, and the characteristic tongue of scar- 
latina ; the short duration and rapid disappearance of the rash. The 
albuminuria, so well-nigh constantly observed in scarlet fever, is also 
not present, nor is the pulse rate in contradistinction to the effect of 
the scarlatinal poison, even in mild cases, upon the circulation 
accelerated beyond a degree correlated to the temperature observed. 

Unruh lays considerable weight upon the character of the glandu- 
lar enlargement in fourth disease. This is early and very moderate 
as compared with the late and altogether severer swelling of the cer- 
vical lymph nodes in scarlet fever. 

The constantly benign course, absence of complications, as well as 
the character and short duration of the desquamation are of service 
in making a retrospective diagnosis. Additional information may 
perhaps be gained by a blood count, which in scarlet fever shows 
an early leucocytosis, which is persistent for many days. There is 
no information at present available as to the leucocyte count in 
fourth disease, but reasoning a priori, it should be similar to that 
of measles and rubella, in which a leukopenia is observed. 

The fourth disease is differentiated from rubella mainly by the 
character of the eruption, as, in the other symptoms, including the 
period of incubation, the two diseases present a striking resemblance. 
The eruption in rubella appears first behind the ears and underneath 
the lower jaw. Its component elements are altogether larger than 
those of the fourth disease, show a tendency to coalesce into the so- 
called " bat's wing " patches, and the eruption as a whole tends to 
approximate a morbilliform type. 

Conclusions. — It will be seen from the foregoing that the crux of 
the contention of the several advocates of the fourth disease is that 
the symptom-complex, hitherto known as rubella, actually consists 
of two diseases, German measles and the fourth diseasfe, which lat- 
ter, according to the exanthem prevailing at the time, is regularly 
mistaken either for mild scarlatina or a typical German measles. 

It would seem to be established beyond a reasonable doubt that 
the fourth disease complies with those conditions which entitle it to 
a place as a new entity in the catalogue of the eruptive fevers, namely, 
that it has been seen to attack individuals who have had rubella and 
scarlatina, and that, conversely, it does not protect against either of 
these diseases. 

Moreover, a certain amount of internal evidence can be adduced 
in support of the independent existence of this disease. 

Thus, while the truth of CuUen's dictum is well established — i. e., 
that an attack of an eruptive fever confers immunity against that dis- 
ease during childhood — there have been numerous cases observed of 
apparent recurrences of attacks of scarlet fever after a lapse of 
time so short as to imply the acquisition in the primary attack of 
an immunitv of the most evanescent and trivial character. This 



589 Miiy 10, 1907 

is directly contrary to our experience, which teaclies us that tlie 
immunity conferred by scarlet fever to subsequent attacks is. as a 
rule, complete and lasting. 

Moreover, in the overwhelming majority of cases the incubation 
period of scarlet fever is from three to five days, with a maximum of 
seven ; yet in a table of 113 cases of scarlatina in which the incuba- 
tion period had been determined, 8, or nearly 7 per cent, were found 
to have matured in from nine to twenty-one days after exposure. 
Besides this, we are informed that cases of scarlet fever are severe 
in proportion to the shortness of the incubation period, those with 
an extended period being very mild. 

Inasmuch as a short period of incubation is one of the charac- 
teristics of scarlet fever and constancy, within well-defined limits of 
their periods of incubation, is characteristic of exanthematous dis- 
eases in general, the inference is obvious, in the premises, that cases 
with a protracted period (nine to twenty-one days) reported as 
scarlet fever are not scarlet fever, but some other disease (i. e., fourth 
disease) resembling scarlatina. 

The epidemologic interest of this question of the fourth disease is 
great. To concede its existence clears up many puzzling and anoma- 
lous facts in regard to eruptive fevers. Moreover, in cases of fourth 
disease, which have hitherto been regarded as cases of mild scarla- 
tina, the shortening of the period of quarantine will remove a source 
of gTeat annoyance and often pecuniary loss to the individuals con- 
cerned. 

It has been urged, however, that, in the absence of more complete 
data, the possibility of the confusion of Dukes' disease with scarlet 
fever is not without danger to the community at large. While no 
harm and only inconvenience can arise by the mistaking of this dis- 
ease for scarlet fever, the converse, with the subsequent too early re- 
lease of the patient from isolation, would constitute a menace to the 
public health, and might be the starting point of a serious epidemic. 

It would seem therefore better, for the present at least, to leave the 
question of the fourth disease sub judice until the data collated can 
be relied upon to settle the matter once for all, and in the meantime 
to treat all mild scarlatinaform exanthems as scarlet fever. 

It should, however, be borne in mind that the extended period of 
isolation imposed for scarlet fever is not arbitrarily fixed, but is due 
to the persistence of the desquamation. One is therefore at a loss to 
conceive the ability of scarlet fever to be further transmitted once all 
desquamation has ceased and there are no other complications, such 
as nephritis, otitis, glandular suppuration, or catarrhal discharges, 
present. 

Consequently the fears expressed in regard to the confusion of 
scarlet fever and Dukes' disease are more or less imaginary, as the 
persistence of the desquamation or the presence of catarrhal or 
purulent discharges will in true scarlet fever indicate the necessity 
for continued isolation, while in Dukes' disease the rapid disap- 
pearance of all symptoms, together with the customary speedy and 
complete restitutio ad integrum, will define with equal accuracy the 
time at which it is safe to discharge the patient from observation. 



Maj'lO, 1907 590 

BIBLIOGBAPHY. 

C. Dukes : On the confusion of two different diseases under tlie name of 

rubella (rose rash), Lancet, 1900, vol. 2, pp. 89-94. 
E. Cbaik : Measles, German measles, and fourth disease, Lancet, 1900. vol. 2, 

p. 481. 
V. BoKAT : Deutche Med. Wochenschrift, Vol. XXX, p. 1561. 
Klein : Deutche Med. Wochenschrift, Vol. XXX, p. 1776. 
RuHEMANN : Deutche Med. Wochenschrift, 1905, p. 105. 
L. Cheinisse : La Semaine Medicale, Nov. 18, 1905. 
O. Unbuh : Deutche Archiv fur Klin. Med., vol. 85, p. 1. 
B. KoHN : Am. Medicine, Jan. 13, 1906. 
ILLOWAY : Archives of Pediatrics, Feb., 1907. 

[Reports to the Surgeon-General, Public Health and Marine-Hospital Service.] 

Report from Indianapolis, Ind. — Measles. 

Reports received from the board of health at Indianapolis, Ind., 
indicate an unusual prevalence of measles in that city. For the week 
ended April 21, 614 cases with 6 deaths were reported ; for the week 
ended April 28, 865 cases, 5 deaths. Census population, 169,164. 

Report from Saginav, Mich. — Measles. 

Health Officer llyan reports 75 cases of measles for the week ended 
April 20, 1907. Census population, 42,345. 

Report from Vancehoro, Me. — Smallpox on Canadian border — Train 

inspection. 

Acting Assistant Surgeon Young reports, April 28 : 
Week ended April 27, 1907. Inspected about 2,100 passengers, car- 
ried in 18 trains ; vaccinated 121 ; accepted official certificate of vac- 
cination and nonexposure to infection in the case of 60 others. No 
definite information has been received from the smallpox infected 
district. 

STATISTICAL REPORTS OF 3I0RBIDITY AND MORTALITY, STATES AND CITIES 
OF THE UNITED STATES UNTABULATED. 

California. — Month of March, 1907. Estimated population, 
1,882,846. Total number of deaths reported to the State board of 
health, 2,680. corresponding to an annual death rate of 15.8 per 1,000 
population. Deaths from contagious diseases were as follows : Diph- 
theria 27, enteric fever 24. measles 30. whooping cough 15, and 412 
from tuberculosis. 

Florida. — Reports to the State board of health for the week ended 
April 20, 1907, show as follows : Enteric f evfer — Jacksonville. 3 cases : 
Plant City, Tampa, and Port Tampa, 4 cases; Tallahassee. 1 case. 
Smallpox — Tampa, 2 cases. Tuberculosis — Cocoa, Floral City, -Jack- 
sonville, Tampa, and Daytona, each 1 case. 


