Early Journal Content on JSTOR, Free to Anyone in the World 

This article is one of nearly 500,000 scholarly works digitized and made freely available to everyone in 
the world by JSTOR. 

Known as the Early Journal Content, this set of works include research articles, news, letters, and other 
writings published in more than 200 of the oldest leading academic journals. The works date from the 
mid-seventeenth to the early twentieth centuries. 

We encourage people to read and share the Early Journal Content openly and to tell others that this 
resource exists. People may post this content online or redistribute in any way for non-commercial 
purposes. 

Read more about Early Journal Content at http://about.jstor.org/participate-jstor/individuals/early- 
journal-content . 



JSTOR is a digital library of academic journals, books, and primary source objects. JSTOR helps people 
discover, use, and build upon a wide range of content through a powerful research and teaching 
platform, and preserves this content for future generations. JSTOR is part of ITHAKA, a not-for-profit 
organization that also includes Ithaka S+R and Portico. For more information about JSTOR, please 
contact support@jstor.org. 



SANITARY LEGISLATION. 



COURT DECISIONS. 



UNITED STATES SUPREME COURT. 

The Sherley Amendment to the Pure Food and Drugs Act is Constitutional— A Mis- 
branded "Patent Medicine" Condemned. 

Seven Cases Eckman 's Alterative v. United States, U. S. • 

(Jan. 10, 1916.) 

Congress has power to condemn the interstate transportation of swindling preparations designed to cheat 
credulous sufferers, and to make such preparations, accompanied by false and fraudulent statements, 
illicit with respect to interstate commerce. 

Persons who make or deal in substances or compositions alleged to be curative are in a position to have 
superior knowledge regarding the curative properties of the substances, and such persons may be held 
to good faith in their statements. 

The word " package" or its equivalent expression, as used in sections 7 and 8 of the Federal pure food and 
drugs act, refers to the immediate container of the article which is intended for consumption by the 
public. 

The amendment of 1912 to the pure food and drugs act (the Sherley amendment) is broad enough to include 
false and fraudulent statements in circulars contained in the package in which drugs are inclosed. 

The phrase " false and fraudulent ' ' as used in the Sherley amendment to the Federal pure food and drugs 
act must be taken with its accepted legal meaning, and thus it must be found that the statement 
regarding the curative or therapeutic effect of the article was made with actual intent to deceive— 
an intent which may be derived from facts and circumstances, but which must be established. 

Several cases of a proprietary remedy were shipped in interstate commerce. In every package containing 
one of the bottles was a circular with this statement: "Effective as a preventative for pneumonia." 
" We know it has cured and that it has and will cure tuberculosis." The goods were seized and con- 
demned on the ground that the statement was false and fraudulent. The defense challenged the 
constitutionality of the Sherley amendment, under which the goods were seized, but the court held 
that it was valid. 

Mr. Justice Hughes delivered the opinion of the Court. 

Libels were filed by the United States, in December, 1912, to condemn certain 
articles of drugs (known as "Eckman's Alterative") as misbranded in violation of 
section 8 of the food and drugs act. The articles had been shipped in interstate 
commerce, from Chicago to Omaha, and remained at the latter place unsold and in 
the unbroken original packages. The two cases present the same questions, the libels 
being identical save with respect to quantities and the persons in possession. In each 
case demurrers were filed by the shipper, the Eckman Manufacturing Co., which 
challenged both the sufficiency of the libels under the applicable provision of the 
statute and the constitutionality of that provision. The demurrers were overruled 
and, the Eckman company having elected to stand on the demurrers, judgments of 
condemnation were entered. 

Section 8 of the food and drugs act, as amended by the act of August 23, 1912, 
c. 352, 37 Stat. 416, provides, with respect to the misbranding of drugs, as follows: 

"Sec. 8. That the term ' misbranded,' as used herein, shall apply to all drugs or articles of food or articles 
which enter into the composition of food, the package or label of which shall bear any statement, design, 
or device regarding such article, or the ingredients or substances contained therein which shall be false or 

(137) 



January 21, 1916 138 

misleading in any particular, and lo any food or drug product which is falsely branded as to the State, Ter- 
ritory, or country in which it is manufactured or produced. 

'• That for the purposes of this act an article shall also be deemed to be misbranded. In case of drugs: 
* ****** 

' Third. If its package or label shall bear or contain any statement, design, or device regarding the cura- 
t ivo or therapeutic effect of such article or any of the ingredients or substances contained therein which is 
false and fraudulent." 

The amendment of 1912 consisted in the addition of paragraph ''Third," which is 
the provision hero involved. 

It is alleged in each libel that every one of the cases of drugs sought to be condemned 
contained 12 bottles, each of which was labeled as follows: 

" Eckuian's Alterative,— contains twelve per cent, of alcohol by weight, or fourteen per cent, by volume — 
used as a solvent. For all throat and lung diseases including Bronchitis, Bronchial Catarrh, Asthma, Hay 
Fever, Coughs and Colds, and Catarrh of the Stomach and Bowels, and Tuberculosis (Consumption) 
* * * Two dollars a bottle. Prepared only by Eckman Mfg. Co. Laboratory Philadelphia, Petma., 
U. S. A." 

And in every package containing one of the bottles there was contained a circular 
with this statement: 

"Effective as a preventative for pneumonia." "We know it has cured and that it has and will cure 
tuberculosis." 

The libel charges that the statement "effective as a preventative for pneumonia" 
is "false, fraudulent, and misleading in this, to wit, that it conveys the impression to 
purchasers that said article of drugs can be used as an effective preventative for 
pneumonia, whereas, in truth and in fact said article of drugs could not be so used;" 
and that the statement, "we know it has cured " and that it " will cure tuberculosis " 
is "false, fraudulent, and misleading in this, to wit, that it conveys the impression to 
purchasers that said article of drugs will cure tuberculosis, or consumption, whereas, 
in truth and in fact said article of drugs would not cure tuberculosis, or consumption, 
there being no medicinal substance nor mixture of substances known at present which 
can be relied upon for the effective treatment or cure of tuberculosis, or consumption." 

The principal question presented on this writ of error is with respect to the validity 
of the amendment of 1912. 

So far it is objected that this measure, though relating to articles transported in 
interstate commerce, is an encroachment upon the reserved powers of the States, the 
objection is not to be distinguished in substance from that which was overruled in 
sustaining the white slave act (36 Stat., 825). Hoke v. United States, 227 TJ. S., 308. 
There, after stating that "if the facility of interstate transportation" can be denied 
in the case of lotteries, obscene literature, diseased cattle and persons, and impure 
food and drugs, the like facility could be taken away from "the systematic entice- 
ment of and the enslavement in prostitution and debauchery of women," the court 
concluded with the reassertion of the simple principle that Congress is not to be 
denied the exercise of its constitutional authority over interstate commerce, and its 
power to adopt not only means necessary but convenient to its exercise, because these 
means may have the quality of police regulations. (Id. pp. 322, 323. See Gloucester 
Ferry Co. v. Pennsylvania, 114 U. S., 196, 215; Hipolite Egg Co. v. United States, 220 
U. S., 45, 57; Lottery Case, 188 U. S., 321). 

It is urged that the amendment of 1912 does not embrace circulars contained in the 
package, but only applies to those statements which appear on the package or on the 
bottles themselves; that is, it is said that the word "contain" in the amendment 
must have the same meaning in the case of both "package" and "label." Reference 
is made to the original provision in the first sentence of section 8 with respect to the 
statements, etc., which the package or label shall "bear." And it is insisted that if 
the amendment of 1912 covers statements in circulars which are contained in the 
package it is unconstitutional. Such statements, it is said, are not so related to the 



139 January 21, 1913 

commodity as to form part of the commerce which is within the regulating power of 
Congress. 

But it appears from the legislative history of the act that the word "contain" was 
inserted in the amendment to hit precisely the case of circulars or printed matter 
placed inside the package, and we think that is the fair import of the provision. 
(Cong. Rec, 62d Cong., 2d sess., vol. 48, pt. 11 , p. 11322.) And the power of Congress 
manifestly does not depend upon the mere location cf the statement accompanying 
the article; that is, upon the question whether the statement is on or in the package 
which is transported in interstate commerce. The further contention that Congress 
may not deal with the package thus transported in the sense of the immediate con- 
tainer of the article as it is intended for consumption is met by McDermott v . Wisconsin 
(228 U. S., 115). There the court said: "That the word 'package' or its equivalent 
expression, as used by Congress in sections 7 and 8 in defining what shall constitute 
adulteration and what shall constitute misbranding within the meaning of the act,"' 
(Food and Dings Act) "clearly refers to the immediate container of the article which 
is intended for consumption by the public, there can be no question. * * * Lim- 
iting the requirements of the act as to adulteration and misbranding simply to the 
outside wrapping or box containing the packages intended to be purchased by the con- 
sumer, so that the importer, by removing and destroying such covering, could prevent 
the operation of the law on the imported article yet unsold, would render the act nuga- 
tory and its provisions wholly inadequate to accomplish the purposes for which it was 
passed." And, after stating that the requirements of the act thus construed were 
clearly within the power of Congress over the facilities of interstate commerce, the 
court added that the doctrine of original packages set forth in repeated decisions, 
which protected the importei in the right to sell the imported goods, was not "intended 
to limit the right of Congress, now asserted, to keep the channels of interstate com- 
merce free from the caniage of injurious or fraudulently branded articles and to choose 
appropriate means to that end." (Id., pp. 130, 131, 137.) 

Referring to the nature of the statements which are within the purview of the amend- 
ment, it is said that a distinction should be taken between articles that are illicit, 
immoral, or harmful and those which are legitimate, and that the amendment goes 
beyond statements dealing with identity or ingredients. But the question' remains 
as to what may be regarded as "illicit," and we find no ground for suying that Con 1 - 
gress may not condemn the interstate transportation of swindling preparations de- 
signed to cheat credulous sufferers and make such preparations, accompanied by false 
and fraudulent statements, illicit with respect to interstate commerce, as well as, for 
example, lottery tickets. The fact that the amendment is not limited, as was the 
original statute, to statements regarding identity or composition (United States v. 
Johnson, 221 U. S. ; -188) does not mark a constitutional distinction. The false and 
fraudulent statement, which the amendment describes, accompanies the article in 
the package, and thus gives to the article its character in interstate commerce. 

Finally, the statute is attacked upon the ground that it enters the domain of specu- 
lation (American School of Magnetic Healing v. McAnnulty, 187 U. S., 94)and by virtue 
of consequent uncertainty operates as a deprivation of liberty and property without due 
process of law in violation of the fifth amendment of the Constitution and does not 
permit of the laying of a definite charge as required by the sixth amendment. We 
think that this objection proceeds upon a misconstruction of the provision. Con- 
gress deliberately excluded the field where there are honest differences of opinion 
between schools and practitioners. (Cong. Rec, 62d Cong., 2d sess., vol. 48, pt. 12, 
App., p. 675.) It was, plainly, to leave no doubt upon this point that the words 
"false and fraudulent" were used. This phrase must be taken with its accepted legal 
meaning, and thus it must be found that the statement contained in the package 
was put there to accompany the goods with actual intent to deceive — an intent which 
10 



January 21, 1916 140 

may be derived from the facts and circumstances, but which must be established. 
(Id., 676.) That false and fraudulent representations may be made with respect to 
the curative effect of substances is obvious. It is said that the owner has the right 
to give his views regarding the effect of his drugs. But state of mind is itself a fact, 
and may be a material fact, and false and fraudulent representations may be made 
about it; and persons who make or deal in substances or compositions alleged to be 
curative are in a position to have superior knowledge and may be held to good faith 
in their statements. (Russell v. Clark's Executors, 7 Cranch, 69, 92; Durland v. 
United States, 161 U. S., 306, 313; Stebbins v. Eddy, 4 Mason, 414, 423; Kohler 
Mfg. Co. v. Beeshore, 59 "Fed., 572, 574; Missouri Drug Co. v. Wyman, 129 Fed., 
623, 628; McDonald v. Smith, 139 Mich., 211; Hedin v. Minneapolis Medical Insti- 
tute, 62 Minn., 146, 149; Hickey v. Morrell, 102 N. Y., 454, 463; Regina v. Giles, 10 
Cox, C. C, 44; Smith v. Land & House Corporation, L. R., 28 Ch. Div., 7, 15.) It 
can not be said, for example, that one who should put inert matter or a worthless 
composition in the channels of trade labeled or described in an accompanying circu- 
lar as a cure for disease, when he knows it is not, is beyond the reach of the law- 
making power. Congress recognized that there was a wide field in which assertions 
as to curative effect are in no sense honest expressions of opinion, but constitute 
absolute falsehoods and, in the nature of the case, can be deemed to have been made 
only with fraudulent purpose. The amendment of 1912 applies to this field, and we. 
have no doubt of its validity. 

With respect to the sufficiency of the averments of the libels, it is enough to say 
that these averments should receive a sensible construction. There must be a defi- 
nite charge of the statutory offense, but we are not at liberty to indulge in hypercriti- 
cism in order to escape the plain import of the words used. There is no question as 
to the adequacy of the description of the article or of the shipments or of the pack- 
ages. It is said that there was no proper statement of the contents of the circular. 
But the libels give the words of the circular, and we think that the allegations were 
sufficient to show the manner in which they were used. The objection that it was 
not alleged that the statements in question appeared on the original packages or on 
the bottles themselves, as already pointed out, is based on a misconstruction of the 
Statutory provision. The remaining and most important criticism is that the libels 
did hot sufficiently show that the statements were false and fraudulent. But it was 
alleged that they were false and fraudulent, and, with respect to tuberculosis, it was 
averred that the statement was that the article "has cured " and "will cure," whereas, 
"in truth and in fact," it would "not cure," and that there was no "medicinal sub- 
stance nor mixture of substances known at present" which could be relied upon to 
effect a cure. We think that this was enough to apprise those interested in the goods 
of the charge which they must meet. It was, in substance, a charge that, contrary 
to the statute, the article had been made the subject of interstate transportation with 
a statement contained in the package that the article had cured and would cure 
tuberculosis, and that this statement was contrary to the fact and was made with 
actual intent to deceive. 

Judgments affirmed. 

Mr. Justice McReynolds took no part in the consideration or decision of these cases. 


