Early Journal Content on JSTOR, Free to Anyone in the World 

This article is one of nearly 500,000 scholarly works digitized and made freely available to everyone in 
the world byJSTOR. 

Known as the Early Journal Content, this set of works include research articles, news, letters, and other 
writings published in more than 200 of the oldest leading academic journals. The works date from the 
mid-seventeenth to the early twentieth centuries. 

We encourage people to read and share the Early Journal Content openly and to tell others that this 
resource exists. People may post this content online or redistribute in any way for non-commercial 
purposes. 

Read more about Early Journal Content at http://about.istor.org/participate-istor/individuals/early- 
journal-content . 



JSTOR is a digital library of academic journals, books, and primary source objects. JSTOR helps people 
discover, use, and build upon a wide range of content through a powerful research and teaching 
platform, and preserves this content for future generations. JSTOR is part of ITHAKA, a not-for-profit 
organization that also includes Ithaka S+R and Portico. For more information about JSTOR, please 
contact support@jstor.org. 



August 14, 1914 2128 

STUDIES ON THE SELF-PURIFICATION OF STREAMS.' 

By Eaele B. Phelps, Professor of Chemistry, Hygienic Laboratory, United States Public Health Service. 

The extensive sanitary investigations that are being carried out by 
the United States Public Health Service upon the Potomac River 
under the direction of Surg. Hugh S. Cumftiing and upon the Ohio 
River under the direction of Passed Asst. Surg. Wade H. Frost offer 
an unprecedented opportunity for the collection and study of certain 
basic data necessary to a general discussion of the principles of the 
self-purification of streams. From a strictly sanitary viewpoint a 
study of this phenomenon centers about the Ufe of pathogenic bacteria 
in water, while from the point of view of nuisance it is concerned with 
the biological oxidation of organic matter. The present discussion 
is confined to the latter aspect of the problem. 

The self-purification of streams is in no way a unique or remarkable 
process. It is essentially like the oxidation and destruction of 
organic matter by the soil. In the case of a polluted stream, how- 
ever, ideal conditions for oxidation may exist, and these, assisted by 
other factors, such as dilution and sedimentation, combine to produce 
such improvement that the phenomenon has ever been regarded as 
one peculiar to itself. 

The reactions involved in this process are essentially biochemical 
reactions. For their occurrence it is necessary to bring together oxi- 
dizable organic matter, oxygen, and oxidizing bacteria. The first 
and last are necessarily present in polluted waters, so that questions 
of stream purification and prevention of nuisance reduce to one of 
oxygen supply. 

Atmospheric oxygen tends to re-enter the water in proportion as 
the oxygen content of the water is lowered by the oxidation of 
organic matter. The intensity of the driving force of re-aeration is a 
direct function of the lowering of this oxygen content. It is at a 
maximum in a completely deoxygenated water, and this is, therefore, 
the condition of maximum oxidizing work in any stream. This con- 
dition, however, is also one of maximum nuisance and is not to be tol- 
erated. Such an anaerobic stream gives off foul odors and is black 
and imsightly in appearance. 

It becomes a matter of some importance, therefore, to determine 
the minimum value which the dissolved oxygen of the stream may 
reach before conditions approach the nuisance stage. This point 
practically fixes the capacity of the stream in question to care for 
pollution. The lower the permissible oxygen concentration the 
greater the proportion of the initial dissolved oxygen of the water 

' Condensed from a paper read before the American Chemical Society, at Cincinnati, Ohio, September, 
1913. 



2129 August 14, 1914 

available for the oxidizing reaction, and the greater the capacity of 
the stream to absorb oxygen from the atmosphere. 

Upon this question of permissible oxygen reduction, there are many 
diverse opinions and very little real knowledge. This point must be 
definitely determined before any general discussion of the capacity 
of streams for self-purification becomes possible. 

The second and most important factor in self-purification is the 
degree of agitation of the stream. The rate of re-aeration of water 
depends not only upon the oxygen concentration existing at the 
time but upon the vertical distribution of that concentration. As- 
sume, for example, that the water is uniformly mixed and quiescent. 
Absorption at the surface leads to a downward diffusion which in 
time establishes a gradiant ranging from essential saturation in the 
upper film to the initial concentration at some point below. The 
diffusion process becomes slower as the curve of distribution of 
oxygen becomes flatter. In practice, quiescent water, even though 
it start with zero oxygen concentration at all points, will, except 
in shallow layers, come to a condition of practical equilibrium with 
very low average oxygen concentration. Beyond this point the 
diffusion process is exceedingly slow. Mixing of the water, after 
such a condition has become established, reestablishes the even 
distribution and allows the absorption to proceed toward a new 
condition of equilibrium. It is apparent, therefore, that, as condi- 
tions depart more and more from the condition of complete quies- 
cence, the rate of reaeration is increased accordingly. The depar- 
tures from quiescence may be definitely stated, and are more easily 
conceived, as the average time between uniform mixings. This 
form of expression is used, not only because it gives a workable 
statement of the degree of agitation in a stream, but because such a 
time factor appears in any formula for re-aeration derived from the 
laws of solubility and of diffusion. Such a formula was developed 
by Col. William M. Black, Corps of Engineers, United States Army, 
and the writer in an investigation of the pollution of New York 
Harbor. In that case it was possible to determine the average time 
between mixings from a study of the mixing effect of winds, vessels, 
and tidal currents. The re-aeration calculated from this theoretical 
formula, using the determined time factors, was in close agreement 
with the actual values found during the subsequent year and thus 
gave satisfactory confirmation of the accuracy of the method. With 
the deep and relatively quiescent waters of New York Harbor re- 
aeration was found to be almost a negligible factor. The capacity of 
such a body of water to oxidize pollution is practically limited by 
the amount of available oxygen brought in from the ocean with 
each tide. 



August li, 1914 2130 

In rivers the conditions are reversed. The initial volume of avail- 
able oxygen is small compared with the total capacity of the stream 
to oxidize pollution. Re-aeration in rivers is the chief factor. The 
time between mixings instead of being measured in hours is probably 
measured in minutes, and its actual determination from direct obser- 
vations can not be made with even workable precision. It becomes 
necessary, therefore, to reverse our process of reasoning, to learn by 
suitable methods the actual extent of re-aeration, and thence to derive 
the time factor in the original aeration formula. This factor wiU 
vary with the depth, character of the river bed, and rapidity of flow. 
It will differ, therefore, for various rivers and for various sections of 
each river, but should be similar for similar types of stream. If it 
can be determined for a sufficiently large number of typical stream 
stretches, it may be possible to deduce general formulas which wiU 
be applicable to other streams of similar type. It should then be 
possible to estimate the capacity of a given river to dispose of pollu- 
tion without objectionable results, or, conversely, the effect of any 
stated pollution upon a river of given type. 

The actual rate of re-aeration in a polluted stream can not, unfor- 
tunately, be determined directly. In spite of re-aeration a stream at 
any given point may be losing oxygen, or in oxygen equihbrium, 
since at all times the biochemical reaction tending to reduce the 
oxygen is opposed to the actual re-aeration. It is necessary, there- 
fore, to develop suitable chemical methods for the separation of these 
opposing tendencies. 

Consider first an ideal situation with two sampling stations on the 
stream between which stations there is no increment either to the 
pollution or to the volume of the stream. These conditions can not, 
as a rule, be obtained and it is necessary to make suitable correction 
for the interference of additional pollution or additional dilution. 
The oxidizing reaction has been studied in the laboratory sufficiently 
to show that it follows a fairly definite course and, like all biochemical 
reactions, is essentially monomolecular in its order^ This means 
. that it proceeds at a constant rate or velocity so that the concen- 
tration of oxidizible material decreases as a logarithmic function of 
the time. A sample of the water from the upper station is submitted 
to study for the determination of three things : The available oxygen 
which it contains; the total amount of oxygen which wiU be required 
for the completion of the oxidizing reaction, known as the oxygen 
demand; and the velocity with which that reaction proceeds. The 
sample from the lower station is submitted to the same examination. 
Since any loss of available oxygen must, by oxidation, give rise to 
an equivalent loss in the oxygen demand, the difference of these two 
terms remains constant throughout the course of the reaction in the 
absence of re-aeration. Any increase in dissolved oxygen at the 



21 3 J August 14. 1914 

lower station over the value calculated from the results of examina- 
tions at the upper station is therefore due to aeration. Correction 
for additional pollution or dilution between the stations is made by 
means of the velocity of reaction determinations. From the deter- 
mination at the upper station and the known time required for water 
to pass from one station to the other the concentration of reacting 
substance at the lower station is calculated. With increasing dilu- 
tion the concentration is decreased, while with increasing pollution 
it is increased. Any change m the concentration, calculated from 
an assumed constant velocity of reaction, indicates an equivalent 
change in dilution or pollution between these stations. It is obvious 
that these two factors are opposed to one another in a plus and minus 
sense and that if the added water were of the same character relative 
to its pollution as the water under investigatioa, the correction factor 
would disappear. In brief, from the known constant velocity of 
reaction, stated in terms of physical chemistry, are determined 
changes in the concentration of the reacting substances, namely, 
pollution. 

The actual laboratory technique of these determinatiors is simple. 
The usual dissolved oxygen determinations are made upon a freshly 
collected sample; a second sample is incubated at 20° C. and a dis- 
solved oxygen determination made upon it at the end of any con- 
venient period, usually 24 or 48 hours. The differences between these 
two results is the oxidation that has taken place in the interval. 
Knowing the form of the reaction curve, one computes from this, 
first, the velocity coefficient of the reaction and then, by exterpola- 
tion to a very long time, the total oxygen demand of the polluting 
organic matter. These two determinations at each station furnish 
the required data. There are, however, many points that require 
special attention. It is necessary in the first place to secure an ade- 
quate sample of the entire cross section of a stream. This iiivolves 
the careful selection of sample stations and the sampling of a stream 
at various points in the cross section both vertically and horizontally. 
It is desirable in the second place to select stretches involvirg a 
minimum correction for additional pollution or dilution aid it is 
quite necessary finally to consider the effect of sedimentation. This 
can only be arrived at by a study of the surface of the river bottom. 
A special apparatus is necessary for the withdrawal of the surface 
deposit from a given area of bottom between stations from time to 
time. A new reaction velocity must be determined for this deposited 
material and suitable correction made to the average findings in the 
water above for the period between the two bottom mud surveys. 
Finally the temperature of the river is not that at which the incuba- 
tions are made. The temperature coefficient of the reaction must be 
known and suitable correction applied. 



August 14, 1914 2132 

Studies of this character are being made a part of both river raves- 
tigations alluded to and it is to be hoped as a result of these studies 
that sanitarians will be ia a position to discuss with much more 
assurance than at present the general principles which underlie the 
phenomenon of the self-purification of streams. 


