Early Journal Content on JSTOR, Free to Anyone in the World 

This article is one of nearly 500,000 scholarly works digitized and made freely available to everyone in 
the world by JSTOR. 

Known as the Early Journal Content, this set of works include research articles, news, letters, and other 
writings published in more than 200 of the oldest leading academic journals. The works date from the 
mid-seventeenth to the early twentieth centuries. 

We encourage people to read and share the Early Journal Content openly and to tell others that this 
resource exists. People may post this content online or redistribute in any way for non-commercial 
purposes. 

Read more about Early Journal Content at http://about.jstor.org/participate-jstor/individuals/early- 
journal-content . 



JSTOR is a digital library of academic journals, books, and primary source objects. JSTOR helps people 
discover, use, and build upon a wide range of content through a powerful research and teaching 
platform, and preserves this content for future generations. JSTOR is part of ITHAKA, a not-for-profit 
organization that also includes Ithaka S+R and Portico. For more information about JSTOR, please 
contact support@jstor.org. 



PUBLIC HEALTH REPORTS 



VOL. 36. MARCH 18, 1921 No. 11 

DITCHING WITH DYNAMITE. 

Asst. Sanitary Engineer H. N. Old reports to malarial field head- 
quarters of the Public Health Service a demonstration of cheap and 
rapid ditching with dynamite, whereby a 20-acre mosquito-breeding 
swamp was converted into valuable pasture land, near Millen, Ga., 
on February 17, 1921, by the Central of Georgia Railway and a repre- 
sentative of a manufacturer of explosives. 

The mucky soil along the prdposed line of ditch was almost com- 
pletely under water. Stumps of green sweet gum, black gum, and 
pine, up to 2\ feet in diameter, stood about 6 to 8 feet apart. 

Owing to the presence of large roots the entire 1,500 feet of ditch 
was not blown at one time, but in ten sections, with a resulting 
economy in the size of charge. One stick of 50 per cent nitroglycer- 
ine dynamite was used in each hole. The holes were 24 inches deep, 
and in a straight line, with a spacing of 10 to 16 inches, averaging 
12. At times extra holes were placed to blow stumps clear of the 
ditch banks. A No. 3 blasting machine was used as detonator, and 
No. 6 electric blasting caps as primers. The immersion of some of 
the dynamite in water for as long as four hours between loading and 
firing was not apparently detrimental to the dynamite. 

Within 30 minutes after the last shot there was a freely running 
stream in the bed. The resulting ditch averaged 1\ feet at the top, 
2\ at the bottom, and Z\ deep. Approximately 970 cubic yards of 
material were removed, or 0.65 cubic yard per linear foot. No 
hand trimming of the sides was found necessary, as is often the case. 

The total cost, including 1,000 pounds of dynamite at 25.5 cents, 
44 man-hours labor at 20 cents, and $6.20 for incidentals, amounted 
to $270. The unit cost was 27.8 cents per cubic yard, or 18 cents 
per linear foot. It is estimated that the blowing of stumps cost 25 
per cent of the total. Under similar conditions, hand ditching 
would be extremely difficult, and a ditch of the same size would 
probably cost 40 to 50 cents per linear foot. 

The landowners intend to convert this formerly waste area into 
pasture land. 

NATIONAL NEGRO HEALTH WEEK. 

Seventh Annual Clean-Up Campaign to be Observed April 3-9, 192i. 

On March 2, 1921, Dr. R. R. Moton, principal of Tuskegee Normal 
and Industrial Institute, addressed a letter to Surg. Gen. Cumming, 

34010°-21 1 (559) 


