Early Journal Content on JSTOR, Free to Anyone in the World 

This article is one of nearly 500,000 scholarly works digitized and made freely available to everyone in 
the world by JSTOR. 

Known as the Early Journal Content, this set of works include research articles, news, letters, and other 
writings published in more than 200 of the oldest leading academic journals. The works date from the 
mid-seventeenth to the early twentieth centuries. 

We encourage people to read and share the Early Journal Content openly and to tell others that this 
resource exists. People may post this content online or redistribute in any way for non-commercial 
purposes. 

Read more about Early Journal Content at http://about.jstor.org/participate-jstor/individuals/early- 
journal-content . 



JSTOR is a digital library of academic journals, books, and primary source objects. JSTOR helps people 
discover, use, and build upon a wide range of content through a powerful research and teaching 
platform, and preserves this content for future generations. JSTOR is part of ITHAKA, a not-for-profit 
organization that also includes Ithaka S+R and Portico. For more information about JSTOR, please 
contact support@jstor.org. 



POISONS AND HABIT-FORMING DRUGS. 1 

A Digest of Laws and Regulations Relating to the Possession, Use, Sale, and Manu- 
facture of Poisons and Habit-Forming Drugs Enacted during 1914 and 1915, Now 
in Force in the United States. 

By Mabtej I. Wilbebt, Technical Assistant, Division of Pharmacology, Hygienic Laboratory, United 

States Public Health Service. 

New Mexico. 

SALE AND USB OF INTOXICATING LIQUORS. 
(Laws 1915. chap. 28.) 

An act to further amend subsection 18 of section 2402 of the Compiled Laws of 1897,' 
as amended by chapter 53 of the laws of 1907, relating to the granting of liquor licenses 
by municipal corporations, etc. 

Section 1. That subsection 18 of section 2402 of the Compiled Laws of 1897, aa 
amended by chapter 59 of the laws of 1907, be and the same is hereby further amended 
so as to read as follows: 

"Eighteenth. To have the right to license, regulate, or prohibit the selling or giving 
away of any intoxicating malt, vinous, mixed, or fermented liquor, within the limits 
of the city or town, the license not to extend beyond the municipal year in which it 
shall be granted, and to determine the amount to be paid for such license: Provided, 
That the city council in cities, or board of trustees in towns, may grant permits to 
druggists for the sale of liquor for medicinal, mechanical, sacramental, and chemical 
purposes only; subject to forfeiture, and under such restrictions and regulations as may 
be provided by ordinance: Provided further, That in granting licenses, such corporate 
authorities shall comply with whatever general law of the territory may be in force 
relative to the granting of license: Provided further, That no city council, or board of 
trustees in towns, in exercisingits rights to grant licenses, regulate or prohibit the sell- 
ing or giving away of any of the liquors mentioned in this section, shall have the power 
to discriminate between persons of like or similar character engaged in the same class of 
business in favorof one as against another, nor to discriminate between places, locations, 
or buildings in favor of one as against another, which are situated in the same business 
district in such city or town: And provided further, That no city council or board of 
trustees in towns shall grant any license for the sale of liquors on any lot where there 
is not a saloon in operation at the time of application for such license, except upon peti- 
tion and written consent of the owners of more than one-half of the lots of the half 
block in which such lot is situated, or if the place described in such application is not 
part of regularly numbered block, then upon petition or written consent of the owners 
of more than half the porperty in the square or other subdivision in which the same is 
situated; but no license shall be granted for the sale of liquors within one block or 
or square of any church, public library, or public school, nor in any purely residence 
district: And provided further, That the provisions of this act shall not apply to build- 
ings owned, controlled, or leased by the association known as Young Men's Christian 
Association." 

i Continued from last weed's Public Health Report?. This digest is the third supplement to Public 
Health Bulletin No. 56. The two preceding supplements were published as reprints numbered 146 and 
240 from the Public Health Reports. 

(651) 



March 10, 1916 652 

New York. 

SALE AND USE OP POISONS. 
(Laws 1915, chap. 502.) 

An act to amend an act in relation to practice of pharmacy, constituting chapter 
45 of the consolidated laws, as amended by chapter 422 of the laws of 1910. 

Sec. 238 (as amended). Poison schedules; register. — It is unlawful for any person 
to sell at retail or to furnish any of the poisons of schedules A and B without affixing 
or causing to be affixed to the bottle, box, vessel, or package, a label with the name 
of the article and the word ' ' poison ' ' distinctly shown and with the name and place of 
business of the seller, all printed in red ink, together with the name of such poisons 
printed or written thereupon in plain, legible characters. 

Wholesale dealers in drugs, medicines, pharmaceutical preparations, chemicals, or 
poisons shall affix or cause to be affixed to every bottle, box, parcel, and outer inclosure 
of any original package containing any of the articles of schedule A a suitable label 
or brand in red ink with the word "poison " upon it. 

Register. — Every person who disposes of or sells at retail or furnishes any poisons 
included in schedule A shall before delivering the same enter in a book kept for 
that purpose the date of the sale, the name and address of the purchaser, the name 
and the quantity of the poison, the purpose for which it is purchased, and the name 
of the dispenser. The poison register must be always open for inspection by the 
proper authorities and must be preserved for at least five years after the last entry. 
He shall not deliver any of the poisons of schedule A or B until he has satisfied himself 
that the purchaser is aware of its poisonous character and that the poison is to be 
used for a legitimate purpose. The provisions of this paragraph do not apply to the 
dispensing of medicines or poisons on physician's prescriptions. 

The board shall add to any of the schedules from time to time as such action becomes 
necessary for the protection of the public. Schedules A, B, and C shall remain in 
force until amended by the rules. 

Sec. 241 (as amended). Schedules A, B, and C. — These schedules remain in force 
until revised by the board and approved by the regents. 

Schedule A. Arsenic, atropine, corrosive sublimate, potassium cyanide, chloral 
hydrate, hydrocyanic acid, morphine, strychnine, and all other poisonous vegetable 
alkaloids and their salts, oil of bitter almond containing hydrocyanic acid, opium 
and its preparations, except paregoric and such others as contain less than 2 grains of 
opium to the ounce. 

Schedule B. Aconite, belladonna, cantharides, colchicum, conium, cotton root, 
digitalis, ergot, hellebore, henbane, Phytolacca, strophanthus, oil of savin, oil of 
tansy, veratrum viride and their pharmaceutical preparations, arsenical solutions, 
carbolic acid, chloroform, creosote, croton oil, white precipitate, methyl or wood 
alcohol, mineral acids, oxalic acid, paris green, salts of lead, salts of zinc, or any drug, 
chemical, or preparation which is destructive to human life in quantities of 60 grains 
or less. 

Schedule C. Ammonia water, bicarbonate of soda, borax, camphor, castor oil, 
cream of tartar, dyestuffs, essence of peppermint, essence of wintergreen, nonpoisonous 
flavoring essences or extracts, glycerine, licorice, olive oil, sal ammoniac, saltpeter, 
sal soda, epsom salts, rochelle salts, sulphur, cod-liver oil, vaseline, petroleum jellies, 
oil of origanum, oil of spike, flaxseed, rock candy, butter color, malt extract, extract 
of beef, beef, iron, and wine; extract of witch hazel, quinine pills, cathartic pills, 
soidlitz powders, bay rum, perfumes, toilet water, tumeric, talcum powder, compo- 
sition powder, porous plasters, copperas, alum, gum arabic, lithia water. 



653 March 10, 191d 

(New York City, Beg. Bd. of Health, Dec. a, 1915.) 

Sec. 128. Hair dyes and other toilet preparations: sale and distribution regulated.— 
No person shall sell, offer for sale, give away, deal in, or supply, or have in his or her 
possession with intent to sell, offer for sale, give away, deal in, or supply any hair 
dye or other toilet preparation intended for human use, which by reason of the pres- 
ence of any ingredient or ingredients therein contained, shall be detrimental or 
injurious to health. 

SALE AND USE OP COCAINE AND NARCOTICS. 
(Laws 1915, chap. 327.) 

An act to amend the public health law, in relation to the sale of habit-forming 
drugs. 

Sec. 245 (as amended). Sale prohibited; exception.— No pharmacist, druggist, or 
other person shall sell, have, or offer for sale, or give away any chloral, opium, or any 
of its salts, alkaloids, or derivatives, or any compound or preparation of any of them 
except upon the written prescription of a duly licensed physician, veterinarian, or 
dentist: Provided, That the provisions of this article shall not apply to tho sale of do- 
mestic and proprietary remedies, nor to physician's prescriptions, compounded solely 
for the person named in the original prescription, actually sold in good faith as medi- 
cines and not for the purpose of evading the provisions of this article: And provided 
further, That such remedies and preparations do not contain more than 2 grains of 
opium, or one-fourth grain of morphine, or one-eighth grain of heroin, or 1 grain of 
codeine, or 10 grains of chloral or their salts in 1 fluid ounce, or if a solid preparation, in 
1 avoirdupois ounce, nor to plasters, liniments, and ointments for external use only. 

Sec. 246 (as amended). Prescriptions; certificates.— It shall be unlawful for any 
person to sell at retail or give away any of the drugs, their salts, derivatives, or prepa- 
rations mentioned in section 245 of this chapter except as herein provided without 
first receiving a written prescription signed by a duly licensed physician, veterinarian, 
or dentist. The prescription must contain substantially the following: The name in 
full of the physician, veterinarian, or dentist issuing such prescription, his office 
address, and the name, age, and address of the person to whom and date on which such 
prescription is issued. It shall be unlawful for any duly licensed physician, vet- 
erinarian, or dentist to issue any such prescription containing any of the drugs, their 
salts, derivatives, or preparations mentioned in section 245 of this chapter, for any 
duly licensed physician to dispense, give, or deliver any of the said drugs, their salts, 
derivatives, or preparations, except after a physical examination of any person for 
the treatment of disease, injury, or deformity. It shall be unlawful for any person 
to sell at retail any of the drugs or preparations of any of those mentioned in section 
245 of this article without first verifying the authority of any prescription containing 
more than 4 grains of morphine, 30 grains of opium, 2 grains of heroin, 6 grains of 
codeine, or 4 drams of chloral. Such verification can be made by telephone or other- 
wise. Such prescriptions so received shall be filled out at the time of receiving the 
same for the full quantity prescribed, and no prescription so received shall be filled 
out more than 10 days after the date which such prescription be dated. Such pre- 
scription, from which no copy shall be taken, shall be retained by the person who 
dispenses the same and shall be filled but once. A separate file of all such prescrip- 
tions shall be kept by the pharmacist or druggist filling the same, but such prescriptions 
may be numbered consecutively with other prescriptions received. Unless so sepa- 
rately filed a record must be kept showing: 

1. The file number given to each prescription filled. 

2. The name of the physician or surgeon signing the same. 

3. The name of the person for whom such prescription is filled. 



March 10, 1919 654 

Any person who sells at retail, furnishes, or dispenses any of the drugs mentioned 
in section 245 of this chapter upon a written prescription of a duly registered physician 
or veterinarian or dentist shall, at the time of dispensing the same, place upon the 
package a label or deliver therewith a certificate stating the name and address of the 
person selling or furnishing the same, the name and address of the physician, vet- 
erinarian, or dentist upon whose prescription such sale is made, the date of the sale, 
and the name of the person to whom such sale is made. Any person, other than a 
manufacturer of any of the drugs mentioned in section 245 or a wholesale dealer in 
drags or a licensed pharmacist, licensed druggist, duly registered practicing physician, 
licensed veterinarian, or a licensed dentist who shall possess any of the drugs men- 
tioned in section 245, or their salts, derivatives, or preparations shall be guilty of a 
misdemeanor, unless said possession is authorized by the certificate described in this 
Bection. Nothing herein contained shall be construed to prohibit the sale of any of 
such drugs by any manufacturing pharmacists or chemists or wholesale or retail 
pharmacists or druggists to other manufacturing pharmacists or chemists or whole- 
sale or retail pharmacists or druggists, or to hospitals, colleges, scientific or public 
institutions, except that such sale shall be made in the manner provided in the next 
succeeding section. 

Sec. 247 (as amended). Order blanks; filing. — The State commissioner of health 
shall prepare and furnish to all boards of health or officers official order blanks, serially 
numbered in duplicate, bound in book form, with carbon or transfer paper between 
the duplicate pages. The said official order shall be furnished by the local health 
board or officer to any local duly licensed physician, dentist, pharmacist, druggist, 
or veterinarian, upon which must be written all orders for the purchase of any of the 
drugs enumerated in section 245 of this chapter for the use of such physician, dentist, 
pharmacist, druggist, or veterinarian. It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, 
furnish, or dispose to any physician, pharmacist, druggist, veterinarian, or dentist 
any of the drugs enumerated in section 245 of this chapter without first receiving 
from such physician, pharmacist, druggist, veterinarian, or dentist an official order 
blank as provided in this section, which official order shall be retained by the corpo- 
ration who sells, furnishes, or dispenses any of the drugs enumerated in section 245 
of this chapter, and such official order shall be kept in a separate file or book and an 
entry made or caused to be made on the order at the time of making such sale, stating 
the date of the sale, the name and address of the purchaser, and the name of the person 
making such sale. 

In lieu of preparing and furnishing order blanks under this section, however, the 
State commissioner of health may approve order blanks provided for in any act of 
Congress regulating the purchase by and sale of such drugs to physicians, pharmacists, 
druggists, veterinarians, and dentists, and may provide by rule and regulation that the 
use of such approved order blanks in the manner and for the purpose set forth in this 
section shall be sufficient compliance with the provisions hereof. Such approval, 
rule, or regulation may be suspended or revoked by the commissioners at any time, 
thereby restoring all the requirements of this section. 

Sec. 248. Physicians, etc., to keep records. — All persons authorized by law to sell, 
administer, prescribe, dispense, or dispose of any of the drugs enumerated in sec- 
tion 245 of this chapter shall forthwith keep on record the name and address of each 
person to whom such drug is dispensed, given, or in any manner delivered and the 
quantity so dispensed, given, or delivered, and shall likewise keep a record of any 
disposition made of any quantity made of any such drug referred to, whether such 
disposition be in the preparation of compounds or otherwise, and if used in the prepara- 
tion of compounds the quantity so used in each compound and where placed. Such 
record shall be preserved for two years and shall always be open for inspection by the 
proper authorities. Any violation of this section is hereby declared to be a mis- 
demeanor. 



655 March 10, 1916 

Seo. 249 (as amended). Hypodermic syringe, sale of; record; penalty. — It ia unlawful 

for any person to sell at retail or to furnish to any person other than a duly licensed 
physician, dentist, or veterinarian an instrument commonly known as a hypodermic 
syringe or an instrument commonly known as a hypodermic needle without the written 
order of a duly licensed physician, dentist, or veterinarian. Every person who disposes 
of or sells at retail, or furnishes or gives away to any person, either of the above in- 
struments, upon the written order of a duly licensed physician, dentist, or veterinarian, 
shall, before delivering the same, enter in a book kept for that purpose the date of 
the sale, the name and address of the purchaser, and a description of the instrument 
sold, disposed of, furnished, or given away. Any person or persons who sell, dispose 
of, or give away an instrument commonly known as a hypodermic syringe, or an in- 
strument commonly known as a hypodermic needle, except in the manner prescribed 
in this section, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. 

Sec. 249a. Commitment of habitual drug users; procedure; discharge. — The constant 
use by any person of any habit-forming drug, except under the direction and consent 
of a duly licensed physician, is hereby declared to be dangerous to the public health. 
Whenever a complaint shall be made to any magistrate that any person is addicted to 
the use of any habit-forming drug, without the consent or direction of a duly licensed 
physician, such magistrate, after due notice and hearing, is [sic] satisfied that the com- 
plaint is founded and that the person is addicted to the use of a habit-forming drug, 
shall commit such person to a state, county, or city hospital or institution licensed 
under the State lunacy commission, or any correctional or charitable institution main- 
tained by the State or any municipality thereof, for the treatment of disease or ine- 
briety. Any court having jurisdiction of a defendant in a criminal proceeding, if it 
appears that a defendant is an habitual drug user, may commit such user for treatment 
as herein provided at any stage of such proceeding against such defendant, and may 
stay proceedings, withold conviction, or suspend sentence, pending the period of such 
commitment. Whenever the chief medical officer of such institution shall certify to 
any magistrate that any person so committed has been sufficiently treated or give any 
other reason which is deemed adequate and sufficient, he may discharge the person so 
committed. Every person committed under the provisions of this section shall 
observe all the rules and regulations of the institution or hospital. Any such person 
who wilfully violates the rules and regulations of the institution or repeatedly con- 
ducts himself in a disorderly manner may be taken before a magistrate by the order 
of the chief medical officer of the institution. The chief medical officer may enter a 
complaint against such person fordisorderly conduct, and the magistrate, after a hear- 
ing and upon duo evidence of such disorderly conduct, may commit such person for 
a period of not to exceed six months to any institution to which persons convicted of 
disorderly conduct or vagrancy may be committed, and such institution shall keep 
such person separate and apart from the other inmates, provided that nothing in this 
section shall be construed to prohibit any person committed to any institution under 
its provisions from appealing to any court having jurisdiction for a review of the evi- 
dence in which this commitment was made. 

Sec. 249d. Penalties. — Any violation of any of the provisions of this article shall 
be deemed to bo a misdemeanor, except that the sale, the offering for sale or the giving 
away or dispensing of the drugs mentioned in section 245 of this act, otherwise than as 
permitted by this act, to any child under the age of 16 years shall be deemed a felony. 
Nothing contained in this article shall be construed to amend or repeal section 1746 

of the penal law. 

(New York City, Keg. Bd. of H., Nov. 24, 1914.) 

Resolved, That section 182 of the Sanitary Code bo, and the same is hereby, amended 
so as to read as follows: 

"Sec. 182. No opium, morphine, chloral, or cannabis indica, or any other sub- 
stance giving a physiological reaction similar to that of opium; or any salts, alkaloids, 



March 10, 1918 656 

or derivatives, of any of the said drugs or substances; or any preparation, compound, 
or mixture, containing any of the said drugs or substances or their salts, alkaloids, or 
derivatives; shall be sold at retail or given away in the city of New York except upon 
the written prescription of a duly licensed physician, veterinarian, or dentist." 

The foregoing provisions shall not, however, apply to preparations, compounds, or 
mixtures, containing any of the aforesaid drugs or substances or their salts, alkaloids, 
or derivatives, prepared for external use only, in the form of liniments, ointments, 
oleates, or plasters. 

DKUG8 TO BE ANNOUNCED ON LABEL. 
(New York City, Reg. Bd. of H., Aug. 24, 1915.) 

Sec. 117. Regulating the sale of proprietary and patent medicines. — No proprietary or 
patent medicine manufactured, prepared, or intended for internal human use, shall 
be held, offered for sale, sold, or given away in the city of New York until the following 
requirements shall, in each instance, have been met. 

The names of the ingredients of every such medicine to which the therapeutic 
effects claimed are attributed and the names of all other ingredients except such as 
are physiologically inactive shall be registered in the department of health in such 
manner as the regulations of the board of health may prescribe. 

The expression "proprietary or patent medicine" for the purpose of this section 
shall be taken to mean and include every medicine or medicinal compound manufac- 
tured, prepared, or intended for internal human use, the name, composition or defini- 
tion of which is not to be found in the United States Pharmacopoeia or National 
Formulary, or which does not bear the names of all of the ingredients to which the 
therapeutic effects claimed are attributed and the names of all other ingredients 
except such as are physiologically inactive, conspicuously, clearly and legibly set 
forth in English on the outside ot each bottle, box or package in which the said medicine 
or medicinal compound is held, offered for sale, sold, or given away. 

The provisions of this section shall not, however, apply to any medicine or medicinal 
compound prepared or compounded upon the written prescription of a duly licensed 
physician: Provided, That such prescription be written or issued for a specific person 
and not for general use, and that such medicine or medicinal compound be sold or given 
away to or for the use of the person for whom it shall have been prescribed and pre- 
pared or compounded: And provided, also, That the said prescription shall have been 
filed at the establishment or place where such medicine or medicinal compound is 
sold or given away, in chronological order according to the date of the receipt of such 
prescription at such establishment or place. 

Every such prescription shall remain so filed for a period of five years. 

The names of the ingredients of proprietary and patent medicines registe r ed in 
accordance with the terms of this section and all information relating thereto or con- 
nected therewith, shall be regarded as confidential, and shall not be open to inspec- 
tion by the public or any person other than the official custodian of such records in the 
Department of Health, such persons as may be authorized by law to inspect such 
records, and those duly authorized to prosecute or enforce the Federal statutes, the 
laws of the State of New York, both criminal and civil, and the ordinances of the city 
of New York, but only for the purpose of such prosecution or enforcement. 

This section shall take effect December 31, 1915. 

Regulation 1. Information to be filed by applicant. — All applications for a certificate 
of registration shall be made upon official application blanks supplied by the depart- 
ment of health, and shall be signed by the applicant. The applicant shall, in each 
instance, furnish the following information: 

1. Name of preparation. 



657 March 10, 1916 

2. Name of applicant (specifying whether manufacturer, proprietor, importer, or 
distributor). 

3. Location of manufacturer. 

4. Form in which preparation is marketed. 

5. Therapeutic effects claimed for preparation. 

6. Names in English (not quantities) of ingredients to which the therapeutic effects 
claimed are attributed, and the names in English (not quantities) of all other ingredi- 
ents such as are physiologically inactive. 

7. Exact text of all advertising matter and every statement set forth upon or con- 
tained in the package, box, bottle, or container as sold, and of all advertising matter 
relating to the said preparation contained in any circular, leaflet, or book sold or dis- 
tributed with or in connection with such preparation. 

Reg. 2. Sample of preparation to be furnished. — A sample of the preparation in the 
form in which it is to be sold or offered for sale in the city of New York, including the 
package, wrapper, label, box, bottle, container, and all advertising matter and state- 
ments shall be submitted with the application. Subsequent changes in form or text 
of labels, advertising matter, or statements shall be filed with the department of 
health and shall be approved before use. 

Reg. 3. Certificate of registration. — When such application properly filled out and 
signed, together with the required sample of the preparation, shall have been filed 
with the department of health and the approval thereof given by the Director of the 
bureau of food and drugs and the Sanitary superintendent, a certificate of registration 
shall be issued, specifying the name of the preparation, the name of the person regis- 
tering such preparation, and the date. Every such registration certificate shall be 
numbered, which said number shall identify the particular preparation so registered 
and shall thereafter be affixed to the package containing such preparation in the manner 
hereinafter prescribed by regulation 5. 

Reg. 4. Certificate of registration does not pass upon merits of or assume, indorse, or 
accept the claims to therapeutic action of proprietary or patent medicines. — No manufac- 
turer, proprietor, distributor, importer, or vendor shall, in any advertisement or in 
any other manner, assert, imply, or indicate that the certificate or registration issued 
by the department of health passes upon the merits, or assumes, indorses, or accepts 
the claims to therapeutic action of the proprietary or patent medicine, and no reference 
of any kind to the department of health shall be made in any advertisement, upon 
label, package, box, or container in which such medicine is contained, or in any other 
manner whatsoever. 

Reg. 5. Registration number. — The following letters and figures shall be conspicu« 
ously and legibly set forth in English characters upon the outer label, wrapper, or 
cover of the packages, box, bottle, or container in which the medicine registered 

with the department of health is contained: "N. Y. C. R. No. (the number 

appearing upon the registration certificate)." No other reference of any kind, to tho 
registration of said proprietary or patent medicine shall be made in any advertise- 
ment, upon any label, package, box, bottle, or container, or in any other manner 
whatsoever. 

Reg. 6. Nonresident applicants to have agent in city. —Where the place of business of 
any person, firm, or corporation filing an application under section 117 of tho Sanitary 
Code is elsewhere than in the city of New York, such applicant shall furnish, at the 
time of filing such application with the department of health, the name of a person, 
firm, or corporation, resident in, or having a place of business in the city of New York' 
as the agent or representative of such applicant. Any notice to or dealings with such 
agent or representative by the department of health or its duly authorized agents 
shall bo as effective as if sent to or made with such applicant. 



March 10, 1916 658 



SALE AND TJSB OF' INTOXICATING LIQUORS. 
(Laws 1915, chap. 227.) 

An act to amend the liquor tax law, in relation to persons who have power to forbid 
the sale or giving away of liquor to certain persons by a notice in writing. 

(Laws 1915, chap. 654.) 

An act to amend the liquor tax law, in relation to places in which traffic in liquor 
shall not be permitted and to penalties. 

PRACTICE OP PHARMACY. 

An act to amend the public health law in relation to the practice of pharmacy. 
Amends sections 231, 233, 235, 238, 240, 240a, and 241 of chapter 502. 

North Carolina. 

SALE AND USE OP POISONS. 

(New Hanover County, N. C, Rog. Bd. of H., Sept. 8, 1914.) 

Sec. 57. Samples of medicines, distribution of, regulated. — No person, firm, or cor- 
poration shall be permitted to stive away, deposit, or otherwise distribute any sample 
package, parcel, box, or other quantity of any nostrum, proprietary medicine, or 
other material of alleged medicinal character or claiming to be a curative agent, by 
means of depositing or leaving the same in any hallway, private area or yard, or on 
any alley, street, public place, or with any child under 12 years of age, within the 
county of New Hanover. Any person violating any provision of this section and 
every person, firm, or corporation causing or inducing the same shall be subject to a 
penalty of $10 for each and every such offense. 

POISONS IN ARTICLES OF COMMERCE. 
(Laws 1915, chap. 154.) 

Section 1. That subdivision 3, relating to foods section 7 of chapter 368, Public 
Laws of 1907, shall be and the same is hereby amended to read as follows: 

"Third. If in package form the quantity of the contents be not plainly and con- 
spicuously marked on the outside of the package to comply with the regulations or 
labeling prescribed by the board of agriculture, provided for by section 10, chapter 
368. of the Public Laws of 1907. The board of agriculture is hereby authorized to 
establish rules and regulations permitting reasonable variations when in their judg- 
ment exactness is impractical: Provided, That the provisions of this paragraph shall 
not apply to articles in packages or containers when the retail price of such articles is 
6 cents or less: And provided further, That it shall not apply to products on hand at the 
time of the passage of this act until after January 1, 1916:" 

Sec. 2. That all laws and clauses of laws in conflict with this act be and the same are 
hereby repealed. 

SALE AND USE OF INTOXICATING LIQUORS. 
(Laws 1915, chap. 91.) 

An act to prohibit the manufacture and sa'e of malt such as is used in the manufac- 
ture of spirituous liquors. 

Section 1. That it shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation, or any 
agent, officer, or employee thereof to manufacture or sell malt, such as is used in the 
manufacture of spirituous liquors, in the State of North Carolina. 



659 March 10, 1016 

Sec. 2. That all express companies, railroad companies, or other transportation com- 
panies doing business in this State are required to keep a separate record of all ship- 
ments of such malt in which shall be entered immediately upon receipt thereof the 
name of the parson to whom shippad, the amount of each shipment, the date when 
received, and the date when delivered, and by whom delivered, and to whom deliv- 
ered, which record shall be cpan for the in? paction of any officer of the State, county, 
or municipality during business hours of the company. 

Sec 3. That any parson, firm, or corporation violating any of the provisions of this 
act shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. 

Sec 4. That this act shall be in force from and after its ratification. 

(Laws 1915, chap. 97.) 

An act to restrict the receipt and use of intoxicating liquors. 

Sec 8. That all laws authorizing or allowing the sale of spirituous, vinous, or malt 
liquors or intoxicating bitters by any medical depository, druggist, or pharmacist be, 
and the same are hereby, repealed, and it shall be unlawful for any medical depository, 
druggist, or pharmacist to sell or otherwise dispose of for gain any spirituous, vinous, 
fermented, or malt liquors or intoxicating bitters: Provided, That any medical deposi- 
tory now authorized by law shall be allowed to dispose of any liquors on hand at the 
time this act goes into effect by selling and shipping same to any person, firm, or cor- 
poration in any State other than North Carolina where such sale would not be illegal. 

Sec 9. That the provisions of this act shall not apply to grain alcohol received by 
duly licensed physicians, druggists, dental surgeons, college, university, and State 
laboratories and manufacturers of medicine when intended to be used in compounding, 
mixing, or preserving medicines or medicinal preparations or for surgical purposes 
when obtained as hereinafter provided. 

Sec 10. That manufacturers of medicine, duly licensed physicians, hospitals, 
dental surgeons, college, university, and State laboratories and druggists may make 
written application to the clerk of the superior court for a permit to receive by trans- 
portation by a common carrier, grain alcohol intended to be used for surgical purposes, 
and in compounding, mixing, or preserving medicines and medical preparations. 
Such parmit shall then be granted by the clerk or his duly appointed deputy, who 
shall affix the seal of his office thereto, and said parmit shall contain the name of the 
applicant to whom the shipment is to be delivered and the place from which the ship- 
ment is to be made, the amount to be shippad, and the date of the granting of the 
permit. The said parmit shall be executed in duplicate, the original shall be deliv- 
ered to the applicant to be sent by him to the shippar to be pasted on the outside of the 
package containing alcohol. 

Sec 11. That a permit issued as above when attached to and plainly affixed in a 
conspicuous place to any package or parcel containing grain alcohol transported within 
this State shall authorize any common carrier within the State to transport the pack- 
age or parcel to which such permit is attached or affixed containing only alcohol 
mentioned in said permit and to deliver the same to the person, firm, or corporation 
to which such permit was issued. 

Sec. 12. That the duplicate copy of said permit, together with the application 
therefor as hereinbefore provided, shall be filed in the office of the clerk of the superior 
court chronologically and alphabetically with regard to the name of the applicant, 
and the application shall at all times be subject to the inspection of any citizen or 
officer of the State, county, or municipality, and for his services the clerk of the 
superior court shall be entitled to a fee of 50 cents to be paid by the applicant. 

Sec 13. That any person, firm, or corporation violating any of the provisions of this 
act shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. 
45 



March 10, 1916 660 

(Laws 1915, chap. 194.) 

An act to relieve drug stores and medical depositories from unused license tax to 
sell liquors. 
Whereas by an act of this general assembly entitled "An act to restrict the delivery 

and use of intoxicating liquors the sale of intoxicating liquors is prohibited on and 

after the 1st day of April, 1915; and 
Whereas certain drug stores and medical depositories have paid for license from the 

State, which said license authorized such sale until May 31, 1915: Now, therefore, 

the General Assembly of North Carolina do enact: 

Section 1. That the State treasurer be and is hereby authorized to refund out of 
moneys in the State treasury to any drug store or medical depository one-sixth of the 
amount paid by such drug store or medical department to the State for license to sell 
intoxicating liquors expiring May 31, 1915. 

Sec. 2. That this act shall be in force from and after the 1st day of April, 1915. 

PRACTICE OF PHARMACY. 
(Laws 1915, chap. 165.) 

Section 1. That section 4480 of the revisal of 1905 be stricken out and the following 
inserted in lieu thereof: 

"Sec. 14. That in order to become licensed as a pharmacist within the meaning of 
this act an applicant shall be not less than 21 years of age; he shall present to the board 
of pharmacy satisfactory evidence that he has had four years of experience in phar- 
macy under the instruction of a licensed pharmacist, and that he has attended a repu- 
table school or college of pharmacy for not less than nine months, and he shall also 
pass a satisfactory examination by the board of pharmacy: Provided, however, That 
the actual time of attendance at a reputable school or college of pharmacy not to exceed 
two years may be deducted from the time of experience required." 

Sec 2. That the provisions of this act shall not affect anyone now licensed as a 
pharmacist or who may become licensed before January, 1918. 

North Dakota. 

SALE AND USE OF COCAINE AND NARCOTICS. 
(Laws 1915, chap. 154.) 

Prohibiting the sale of cocaine and heroin. 

Sec. 2943 (as amended). Cocaine and heroin; how soW.— No product or preparation 
shall be sold, offered for sale, or given away which contains cocaine or any of its salts 
or derivatives, and no delivery of cocaine or of its salts shall be made in this State 
except upon the written prescription of a duly licensed North Dakota physician, 
dentist, or veterinarian, and the said prescription shall not be refilled. That no prod- 
uct or preparation shall be manufactured, sold, or offered for sale, or given away con- 
taining any heroin, and that no person shall be permitted to have in his or her posses- 
sion any preparation which contains heroin or any of its salts or derivatives, and no 
delivery of heroin or any of its salts or derivatives shall be made in this State except 
upon the written prescription or order of a physician duly licensed to practice in 
North Dakota, and said prescription or order shall not be refilled. Itshall be unlawful 
for any duly registered physician or licensed dentist to write, issue, deliver, or dictate 
either directly or indirectly any prescription containing heroin for any habitual user, 
and it s'lall be unlawful for any licensed veterinarian or dentist to write, issue, deliver, 
or dictate either directly or indirectly any prescription for a human being of any 
preparation containing heroin. Any person violating any of the provisions of this 
section shall, upon conviction, be punished by a fine not to exceed $1,000 nor less 
than $100, or by imprisonment in the State penitentiary not more than one year or 



661 March 10, 1916 

in the county jail not more than six months, or by both such fine and imprisonment, 
and if such person be a licensed physician, dentist, veterinarian, or druggist his license 
may be declared forfeited. 

DRUGS TO BE ANNOUNCED ON LABEL. 
(Laws 1915, chap. 154.) 

An act to amend sections 2942 and 2943, Compiled Laws of North Dakota for the 
year 1915, Ihe same being an act to prevent the misbranding and selling of adulterated 
and insufficiently labeled drugs or medicines, restricting or prohibiting the sale of 
certain drugs, and providing a penalty for the violation thereof. 

Sec. 2942 (as amended). Drugs and medicines to be labeled. — Every proprietary 
product, drug, medicine, or beverage containing alcohoi, morphine, opium, alpha or 
beta eucaine, chloroform, cannabis, indica, chloral hydrate, acetanilid, croton oil, 
cotton root, ergot, oil of tansy or oil of savin or any derivative salt or preparation of 
any such substance contained therein shall be labeled in plain open gothic letters 
printed on a while background by themselves and immediately following the name 
of the product, showing the name, the proportion or percentage of each of the foregoing 
constituents, and the said facts shall be set on the face of the principal label, also on 
the carton or container. 

Sec. 2943 (as amended). See under Sale and use of cocaine and narcotics. 

POISONS IN ARTICLES OP COMMERCE. 
(Laws 1915, chap. 200.) 

An act to prohibit the adulteration and misbranding of foods and beverages and the 
selling of adulterated and unwholesome foods and beverages and prescribing penalty 
for tailure to comply with the provisions of this act. 

Sec 3. Any article of food or beverage shall be considered as misbrauded, unwhole- 
some, adulterated, or insufficiently labeled as the case may be, vvitnin the meaning of 
this act: 

First. Tf it contains any form of added mineral color, aniline dye, or other coal-tar 
dye, or if colored (and not in violation of clause six of this section) with a harmless 
vegetable dye or color and the name thereof is not given on the label, provided the 
food commissioner may exempt from the provisions of this clause such dyes or colors 
as he deems proper for use in food products or beverages. 

Second. If it contains any added formaldehyde, benzoic acid, sulphurous acid, 
boric acid, nitrous acid, salicylic acid, hydrofluoric acid, pyroligneous acid, copper, 
saccharin, dulcin, glucin, beta naphthol, abrasol, oxides of nitrogen, or any salt or 
antiseptic compound derived from these products, or any other ingredient of a dele- 
terious or harmful nature in any quantity whatsoever: Provided, Nothing in this act 
shall be deemed to prohibit the use of household spices and condiments or of the 
smoking of meats and fish with wood smoke applied directly as genorated. 

Third. If any substance or substances have been mixed with it so as to reduce or 
lower or injuriously affect its quality or strength of food value so that such articles of 
food or beverage when offered for sale shall deceive or tend to deceive the purchaser,- 
or if any substance or substances other than dyes, flavoring, or preservatives permitted 
by this act have been added to it which deceive or tend to deceive the user or purchaser 
as to the true quality of the article or beverage, or which cause the article or beverage 
to appear to be superior to or different from its real qualities. 

Fourth. If any inferior or cheaper substance or substances have been substituted 
wholly or in part for any of the natural or proper ingredients of such product, article, or 
beverage so that the product when sold shall deceive or tend to deceive the purchaser. 

Fifth. If any necessary or valuable constituents of the article has been in whole or 
in part abstracted. 



March 10, 1916 662 

!>ixth. If it be an imitation of or offered for sale under the specific name of another 
article. 

Seventh. If it be labeled, branded, colored, coated, treated, or stained whereby 
damage or inferiority is concealed so as to deceive or mislead the purchaser, or if it be 
falsely labeled in any respect, or if it purport, to be a foreign article when not so. It 
shall be unlawful to color or to treat any food product or beverage so as to make it an 
imitation of another article, or to make it appear of superior quality or of a higher grade 
than it really is so that it may deceive or mislead the purchaser. * * * 

Kighth. If it consists wholly or in part of diseased, decomposed, filthy, or putrid 
animal or vegetable substance, or if such substance or substances be used in the 
preparation thereof, or if it is the product of a diseased animal or one that has died 
otherwise than by slaughter, or if it be produced, stored, transported, or kept in a 
condition that would render the article diseased, contaminated, or unwholesome, or 
if it is the milk of an animal fed upon a substance unfit for the food of dairy animals. 

Ninth. If every package, bottle, or container does not bear the true net weight, 
measure, or numerical count as hereinafter provided for * * *. 

1'rovidtd, That an article of food or beverage shall not be deemed to be adulterated 
in the following cases: 

First. If it be a compound or mixture of recognized food products not included in 
definitions sixth, eighth, and ninth of this section, and if it be properly labeled or 
tagged to comply with the other provisions of section 3. 

Second. In the case of candies, confections, and chocolates, if they contain no 
terra alba, barytes, talc, chrome yellow, or other mineral substances or aniline dye 
or other coal-tar dyes or other poisonous colors, shellac, resinous bodies, paraffin, 
flavors, alcoholic liquors, or products detrimental to health, and are correctly labeled 
to comply with the other provisions of this act. * * * 

SALE AND USE OF INTOXICATING LIQUORS. 
(Laws 1915, chap. 196.) 

Section 1. Any person who shall receive or receipt for any intoxicating liquor 
not consigned to himself or a member of his family of the age of majority, oi who 
shall use any fictitious name or appellation and receive or receipt for intoxicating 
liquor thereunder, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. 

Ohio. 

SALE AND USE 01? POISONS. 
(Laws 1915, amended senate bill No. 258.) 

Sec. 1446. No person shall take, catch, or kill fish in any waters over which the 
State of Ohio has jurisdiction by means of quicklime, electricity, or any kind of 
explosive or poisonous substance, or place or use quicklime, electricity, explosive, 
or poisonous substances in any such waters except for engineering purposes and upon 
the written, permission of the board of agriculture. 

Sec. 485. All lakes, reservoirs, and State lands dedicated to the use of the public 
for park and pleasure resort purposes, with respect to the enforcement of all laws 
relating to the protection of birds, fish, and game, shall be under the supervision; and 
control of the board of agriculture. All laws for the protection of fish in inland rivers 
and streams of the State, and all laws for the protection of birds, fish, and game shall 
apply to all sucn State reservoirs and lake3. 

(Laws 1915, hous3 bill No. 470.) 

Section I. Any inflammation, swelling, or redness in either one or both eyes of 
any infant, either apart from or together with any unnatural discharge from the eye 



663 March 10, 1018 

or eyes of such infant, independent of the nature of the infection, if any, occurring 
any time within two week 1 ? after the birth of such infant, shall be known as inflam- 
mation of the eyes of the new born child. 

Sec. 2. It shall be the duty of any physician, surgeon, obstetrician, midwife, 
nurse, maternity home or hospital of any nature; parent, relative, and any persona 
attendant on or assisting in any way whatsoever, any infant or the mother of any 
infant at childbirth or any time within two weeks after childbirth, knowing the 
condition hereinabove defined to exist, within six hours thereafter, to report such 
fact, as the State board of health shall direct. 

Sec. 5. It. shall be the duty of the physicians, midwives, or other persons in attend- 
ance upon a case of childbirth in a maternity home, hospital, public, or charitable 
institution, in every infant immediately after birth, to use some prophylactic against 
inflammation of the eyes of the new born and to make record of the prophylactic 
used. It shall also be the duty of such institution to maintain such records of cases 
of inflammation of the eyes of the new born as the State board of health shall direct. 

DRUGS TO BE ANNOUNCED ON LABEL. 
(Laws 1915, amended senate bill No. 250.) 

Sec. 1141. Whoever s"lls or offers for sale within this State any feedstuffs or condi- 
mental stock or poultry feeds, animal or poultry regulators, conditioners, tonics, or 
similar articles, for any of which any food value is claimed in any manner by the 
manufacturer or seller thereof, in carload lots or in bulk packages thereof, shall furnish 
with each carload or quantity in bulk or package thereof or affix to each bag, barrel, 
or other package thereof, in a conspicuous plaee on the outside thereof, a plainly 
printed certificate, which shall state the number of net pounds in each car or quantity 
in bulk or in each package, the name, brand, or trade-mark under which it is sold or 
offered for sale, the name, and post-office address of the manufacturer, shipper, or 
vendor, and the names of each and all ingredients of which the article is composed. 
Such certificate shall contain also a chemical analysis of the product to be sold which 
shall state the minimum pr rcentage of crude protein, allowing 1 per cent of nitrogen 
to equal 6J per cent of protein of crude fat and crude fiber, also the maximum per- 
centage of crude fiber of the product to be sold. 

Sec 1142. Before selling or offering for sale any of the feedstuffs, condimental stock 
and poultry feeds, animal or poultry regulators, conditioners, tonics, or similar articles 
defined in section 1141 within this State, "each person, firm, or corporation shall file 
for each and every brand of such feedstuffs, condimental stock and poultry feeds, 
animal or poultry regulators, conditioners, tonics, or similar articles, a distinguishing 
name with the board of agriculture and a certified copy of the certificate required by 
the preceding section and forward, prepaid, on request of said board a sealed glass jar 
or bottle containing not less than 1 pound of such feedstuffs, condimental stock and 
poultry feeds, animal or poultry regulators, conditioners, tonics, or similar articles, 
with an affidavit that the quantity so forwarded is a fair sample of the product to be sold. 

Sec. 1143. Before selling or offering for sale within this State any of such feedstuffs, 
condimental stock and poultry feeds, animal or poultry regulators, conditioners, 
tonics, or similar articles, defined in section 1141, a person, firm, or corporation manu- 
facturing or compounding said articles, and selling or offering them for sale, either 
directly or indirectly in this State, shall pay each year a license fee to the board of 
agriculture for the sale of each brand of feedstuffs, condimental stock and poultry 
feeds, animal or poultry regulators, conditioners, tonics, or similar articles, $20. The 
board of agriculture may reject any application for license if the certificate provided 
for in the preceding sections is misleading or not distinguishing. Upon the granting 
of such application and the payment of such fee said board shall issuo a license for the 
current year. All licenses shall expire on the 31st day of December of each year. 



March 10, 1916 664 

The payment of a license fee by such person, firm, or corporation shall exempt an 
agent thereof, or dealer therein, from the requirements of this section; but until such 
license fee, which shall be the full license fee collected by the State for the privilege 
of selling or offering for sale any of the said brands in any one year, any person, firm, 
or corporation soiling or offering the same for sale shall be liable to the board of agri- 
culture for said license fee of $20. 

Seo. 1144. "Feedstuffs" in general shall be held to include all feeds for live stock 
and poultry, and the following and similar articles of commerce : Linseed meal, linseed- 
oil cako, cottonseed meal, cottonseed cake, pea meal, coconut meal, rice meal, rice 
bran, rice polish, peanut meal, bean meal, gluten meal, gluten feeds, dried brewer's 
grains, dried distiller's grains, dried-beet refuse, malt sprouts, hominy feeds, ceraline 
feeds, oat feeds, mixed feeds, alfalfa meal, molass's feeds, sugar feeds, mixed buck- 
wheat bran, buckwheat hulls and buckwheat middlings, corn and corncob meal, 
crushed ear corn, corn bran, and corn sittings when added to other ground grains, 
wheat bran and screenings, ground or unground mixed feeds made from seeds or 
grains or grain offal, crover meals, dried blood, blood meal, tankage, ground beef or 
fish scraps or other animal or vegetable by-products; but such term shall not include 
hay, straw, whole seeds, unmixed meals made directly from the entire grains of wheat, 
rye, barley, Indian corn, buckwheat, broom corn, pure wheat bran or middlings, not 
mixed with other substances, when sold separately as distinct articles of commerce, 
nor entire grains of corn, oats, wheat, barley, buckwheat, ground together, nor wheat 
bran and middlings not mixed with other substances. 

Sec. 1145. Each year at least one analysis shall be made of each brand of feed- 
stuffs, condimental stock and poultry feeds, animal or poultry regulators, condi- 
tioners, tonics, or similar articles sold within this State. 

All such analyses shall be made under the direction of the board of agriculture, and 
the expenses thereof paid by said board from a fund arising from payment of fees pro- 
vided for in see lion 1143. 

Sec. 1148. That for the purpose of this act feeding material should be deemed 
adulterated if it contains any sawdust, dirt, damaged feed, rice hulls, chaff, peanut 
shells, crushed corncob, oat hulls, or any foreign material whatever with little or no 
feeding value admixed : Provided, That no wholesome mixture of feedstuffs not con- 
taining any of the above-named adulterants shall be deemed to be adulterated if the 
ingredients composing same be plainly and clearly stated on the package and is made 
known to the purchaser, as hereinafter designated as commercial feedstuffs. 

POISONS IN ARTICLES OP COMMERCE. 

(Laws 1915, amended senate bill No. 250.) 

Sec 1177-12. The board of agriculture shall enforce the laws against fraud, adul- 
teration, or impurities in foods, drinks, or drugs, and unlawful labeling within the 
State. The board of agriculture shall establish standards of quality, purity, and 
strength for foods when such standards are not otherwise established by any law of 
this State. Such standards shall conform to'the standards for foods adopted by the 
United States Department of Agriculture. The board of agriculture shall make such 
uniform rules and regulations as may be necessary for the enforcement of the food, 
drug, dairy, and sanitary laws of this State. Such rules and regulations shall, where 
applicable, conform to and be the same as the rules and regulations adopted from time 
to time for the enforcement of the act of Consrress approved June 30, 1906, and amended 
March 3, 1913, and known as the food and drugs act. The board shall inspect drugs, 
butter, cheese, lard, siiup, and other articles of food or drink, made or offered for sate 
in the State and prosecute or cause to be prosecuted each person, firm, or corporation 
engased in the manufacture or sale of an adulterated diug or article of food or drink 
in violation of law. 



665 March 10, 1916 

8ALB AND USB OF INTOXICATING LIQUORS. 
(Laws 1915, amended senate bill No. 307.) 

To provide for license to traffic in intoxicating liquora and to further regulate the 
traffic therein * * *. 

Section 1. For the purpose of appointing license supervisors for granting licenses 
to traffic in intoxicating liquors in this State, the State is hereby divided into 34 
liquor licensing districts, numbered from first to thirty-fourth, inclusive * * *. 

Sec. 11. The district liquor traffic supervisors shall have power to suspend or revoke 
the license of any licensed liquor dealer who has twice violated the law regulating 
or prohibiting the liquor traffic after a hearing of which such licensed dealer has been 
given at least 10 days' notice. 

The licensee whose license is revoked by the district supervisors or the State liquor 
inspector who files the charge against such licensee, or his deputy, upon failure of such 
district supervisors to sustain the charge to suspend or revoke the license, may appeal 
from the decision of the district liquor traffic supervisors to the State board of appeals 
by the same method as provided in sections 1261-53, 1261-54, and 1261-55 of the 
general code, and the decisions of such board of appeals shall be final. 

The said board of appeals shall consist of two qualified electors of the State other 
than tho State liquor traffic inspector or district liquor traffic supervisors, to be ap- 
pointed by the governor. 

The said board of appeals shall receive the sum of $10 per day and their necessary 
traveling expenses for actual time consumed in hearing said appeal, which said ex- 
pense shall be paid in the same manner as other expenses herein provided for are paid. 

After said board of appeals reports to the State liquor traffic inspector the results of 
their decision said board shall adjourn sine die. 

PRACTICE OP PHARMACY. 
(Laws 1915, house bill No. 376.) 

Section 1. That sections 1302 and 1303 of the general code be amended to read 
as follows: 

"Sec. 1302 (as amended). An applicant for certificate as pharmacist shall be not 
less than 21 years of age; shall be a graduate from a schodl of pharmacy in good stand- 
ing as defined in section 1303-2 of the general code; shall have completed at least 
a two years' course in such school as defined in section 1303-2 of the general code; 
and shall have had at least two years of practical experience in a drug storo where 
physicians' prescriptions are compounded: Provided, hoivever, That if the applicant has 
taken a longer course in a school of pharmacy in good standing, each additional year 
successfully passed shall be counted as one year of practical experience. 

"Sec. 1303 (as amended). An applicant for a certificate as assistant pharmacist 
shall not be less than 18 years of age, shall be a graduate from a two years' course in 
pharmacy from a school in good standing as defined in section 1303-2 of the general 
code, or shall have had at least one year of practical experience in a drug store in charge 
of a registered pharmacist, in which physicians' prescriptions are compounded and 
one year successfully passed in a school of pharmacy in good standing as defined in 
section 1303-2 of the general code." 

(Laws 1915, house bill No. 9.) 

Section 1. Whoever willfully, with intent to steal or destroy and without the 
permission of the owner, enters any garden or inclosure owned by another which is 
devoted to the culture of ginseng or golden seal and breaks down, digs, destroys, 
takes, or carries away any ginseng, ginseng seed, golden seal, or golden seal seed therein 
growing, drying, or stored, shall be guilty of a felony and shall be punished by a fine in 
the sum of not less than $50 nor more than $500, or imprisonment in the penitentiary 
for a term of not less than one year nor more than throe years, or both. 



March 10, 1916 666 

Pennsylvania. 

8ALE AND USE OP COCAINE AND NARCOTICS. 
(Laws 1915, No. 54.) 

An act relating to persons habitually addicted to the use of alcohol or drugs, and 
providing for the care and treatment of such persons at the expense of the county 
and State if indigent. 

Section 1. Be it enacted, That the word "inebriate" used in this act means a per- 
son habitually so addicted to the use of alcohol or narcotic drugs as to be a proper 
subject for restraint and treatment. 

Sec 2. Upon petition of two citizens who shall be either the wife, husband, par- 
ent, child, committee of the estate of an inebriate or next friends of such person, the 
court of quarter sessions shall issue its warrant requiring the inebriate on a day fixed 
to be brought into court for a hearing. The petition shall not be considered unless 
it sets forth that the person named therein is an inebriate within the scops of this 
act and unless it be accompanied by the affidavit or affidavits of at least two reputable 
physicians, stating that they have examined the alleged inebriate and that he is a 
proper subject for restraint, care, and treatment. 

Sec. 3. If after such hearing the court is satisfied that the alleged inebriate is a 
proper subject for restraint, care, and treatment, the court shall commit the inebri- 
ate to the State Institution for Inebriates for such period as it may deem advisable 
under the circumstances which appear before it; but in no case shall the same be for 
less than 30 days. When so committed, the inebriate shall remain in such institu- 
tion until on further hearing the said court shall be of opinion that such restraint, 
care, and treatment are no longer beneficial to the inebriate; or until the board of 
trustees or superintendent of the institution shall certify to the said court that 
restraint, care, and treatment are no longer beneficial or necessary to the inebriate or 
that he is cured. Whereupon the court shall order the inebriate to be discharged, 
under such supervision and restriction as the court may impose. 

Sec. 4. When, after hearing, an inebriate is committed to the State institution 
for inebriates, the court shall determine who shall bear the cost and expense of the 
restraint while in the institution. * * * 

Sec. 5. If at such hearing the court find? that the inebriate is indigent and that 
the wife, husband, or parent is unable to pay the cost and expense of the restraint, 
care, and treatment in the institution it shall so certify in the order committing the 
inebriate. 

The cost and expense of restraint, care, and treatment of indigent inebriates in the 
institution shall be borne and paid by the county from which the inebriate is com- 
mitted, overhead charges by the State. 

Sec 6. Any inebriate or any person addicted to the use of alcohol or drugs who 
wishes to submit himself for care or treatment in the institution may be received 
therein as a patient. He shall be detained therein and given adequate care and 
treatment. Such detention shall not extend more than 10 days after he has signified 
in writing his intention or desire of leaving the institution. Admission of such 
patients shall be under such conditions not inconsistent herewith as may be imposed 
by the board of trustees. 

DRUGS TO BE ANNOUNCED ON LABEL. 
(Laws 1915, No. 297.) 

An act to prevent deception in the sale of paint, putty, turpentine, or any substi- 
tutes therefor, and providing penalties for the violation thereof. 

Section 1. Be it enacte/!, etc., That no person, firm, or corporation shall knowingly 
sell or expose for sale, within this Commonwealth, any paint, putty, turpentine, ot 



667 March 10, 1916 

any substitutes therefor marked in any manner so as to tend to deceive the pur- 
chaser as to its nature or composition or which is not labeled as hereinafter pro- 
vided. * * * 

Sec. 3. The label required by this act shall clearly and distinctly state the name 
and residence of the manufacturer of the paint or of the distributor thereof, or of the 
party for whom the same is manufactured. Such label shall be printed in plain, 
legible type, and, so far as possible, common English words shall be used instead of 
technical terms. 

OCCUPATIONAL INTOXICATIONS. 
(Laws 1915, No. 177.) 

An act to provide for the health, safety, and welfare of minors by forbidding their 
employment or work in certain establishments and occupations. * * * 

Sec. 2. No minor under 14 years of age shall be employed or permitted to work in, 
about, or in connection with any establishment or in any occupation. * * * 

Sec 5. No minor under 16 years of age shall be employed or permitted to work 
in operating or assisting in operating any of the following machines, which for the 
purposes of this act are considered dangerous. * * * 

No minor shall be employed or permitted to work in, or in connection with, any saloon 
or barroom where alcoholic liquors are sold. 

In addition to the foregoing it shall be unlawful for any minor under 18 years of age 
to be employed or permitted to work in any other occupation dangerous to the life 
or limb or injurious to the health or morals of the said minor, as such occupations 
shall from time to time, after public hearing thereon, be determined and declared by 
the industrial board of the department of labor and industry. 

PRACTICE OF PHABMACY. 
(Laws 1915, No. 255.) 

An act to amend an act approved the 24th day of May, 1887, entitled "An act to 
regulate the practice of pharmacy and sale of poisons, and to prevent adulterations in 
drugs and medicinal preparations, in the State of Pennsylvania." 

Sec 5. * * * All persons applying for examination for certificates to entitle them 
to conduct and carry on the retail drug and apothecary business must produce satis- 
factory evidence of having had not less than four years' practical experience in the 
business of retailing, compounding, or dispensing of drugs, chemicals, and poisons and 
of compounding of physicians' prescriptions and of being a graduate of some reputable 
and properly chartered college of pharmacy of this or of some other State or foreign 
country whose pharmacy licensing board or other authority recognizes the graduates 
of the reputable, properly chartered colleges of pharmacy of this State, and admits the 
graduates of all such colleges to its pharmacy licensure examinations. All those apply- 
ing for examination for certificates as qualified assistants therein must produce evidence 
of having not less than two years' experience in said business. 

Philippine Islands. 

SALE AND USE Or COCAINE AND NARCOTICS. 
(Laws 1915, act No. 2188.) 

Section 1. The sum of $25,000, or bo much thereof as may be necessary, is hereby 
appropriated, out of any funds in the insular treasury not otherwise appropriated, for 
the payment of the cost of transportation to Manila, treatment in the hospital, sub- 
sistence, clothing, bedding, tobacco, mess kits, soap, barber supplies, laundry, shoes, 
allowance, and transportation to their homes of prisoners not charges of the insular 
government convicted and sentenced to imprisonment and medical treatment in Bili- 
bid Prison for violation of the laws prohibiting the use of opium. 



March 10, 1916 668 

Sec. 2. This act shall take effect as of January 1, 1915, and the funds hereby appro- 
priated shall be available for reimbursement to the bureau of prisons of the expenses 
enumerated or described in section 1 hereof, beginning with said date. 

POISONS IN ARTICLES OP COMMERCE. 

Amendment to regulation 8, relating to guaranties by wholesalers, jobbers, manu- 
facturers, and other parties residing in the Philippine Islands to protect dealers from 
prosecution. 

Regulation 8 of the rules and regulations for the enforcement of the food and drugs 
act (No. 1655) is hereby amended, effective January 1, 1915, so as to read as follows: 

"(a) It having been determined that the legends 'Guaranteed under the food and 
drugs act' and 'Guaranteed by (name of guarantor) under the food and drugs act,' 
borne on the labels or packages of food and drugs, accompanied by serial numbers given 
by the director of health, are each misleading and deceptive, in that the public is in- 
duced by such legends and serial numbers to believe that the articles to which they 
relate have been examined and approved by the government and that the govern- 
ment guarantees that they comply with the law, the use of either legend, or any similar 
legend, on labels or packages should be discontinued. Inasmuch as the acceptance 
by the director of health for filing of the guaranties of manufacturers and dealers and 
the giving by him of serial numbers thereto contribute to the deceptive character of 
legends on labels and packages, no guaranty in any form shall hereafter be filed with 
and no serial number shall hereafter be given to any guaranty by the director of health. 
All guaranties now on file with the director of health shall be stricken from the files 
and the serial numbers assigned to such guaranties shall be canceled. 

"(b) The use on the label or package of any food or drug of any serial number 
required to be canceled by paragraph (a) of this regulation is prohibited. 

"(c) Any wholesaler, manufacturer, jobber, or other party residing in the Philip- 
pine Islands may furnish to any dealer to whom he sells any article of food or drug a 
guaranty that such article is not adulterated or misbranded within the meaning of the 
food and drugs act as amended. 

"(d) Each guaranty to afford protection shall be signed by, and shall contain the 
name and address of, the wholesaler, manufacturer, jobber, dealer, or other party 
residing in the Philippine Islands making the same of the article or articles covered 
by it to the dealer, and shall be to the effect that such article or articles are not adul- 
terated or misbranded within the meaning of the Food and Drugs Act of the Philippine 
Islands. 

"(e) Each guaranty in respect to any article or articles should be incorporated in or 
attached to the bill of sale, invoice, bill of lading, or other schedule, giving the names 
and quantities of the article or articles sold, and should not appear on the labels or 
packages. 

"(J) No dealer in food or drug products will be liable to prosecution if he can 

establish that the articles were sold under a guaranty given in compliance with this 

regulation." 

Rhode Island. 

POISONS IN ARTICLES OP COMMERCE. 
(Laws 1915, chap. 1241.) 

Sec 2. Section 5 of said chapter 183 of the General Laws is hereby amended so aa to 
read as follows: 

"Sbc. 5 (as amended). Confectionery shall also be deemed to be adulterated if it 
contains terra alba, barytos, talc, crome yellow or other mineral substances or poison- 
ous colors or flavors or other ingredients deleterious or detrimental to health or any 
vinous, malt, or spiritous liquor or compound or narcotic drug." 



669 March 10, 1916 

Sec. 3. Section 9 of said chapter 183 of the General Laws is hereby amended so as 
to read as follows: 

"Sec. 9 (as amended). Any article of food or any drug that is adulterated or mis- 
branded within the meaning of this chapter or which is decayed, diseased, unwhole- 
some or unfit for food may be seized and destroyed by any commissioner or other 
officer or agent appointed hereunder in the performance of his duty. * * *" 

OCCUPATIONAL INTOXICATIONS. 
(Laws 1915, chap. 1223.) 

Section 1. Every physician in this State attending on or called in to visit a patient 
whom he believes to be suffering from poisoning from lead, phosphorus, arsenic, brass, 
wood alcohol, mercury, or their compounds, or from anthrax, or from compressed-air 
illness, or any other ailment or disease, contracted as a result of the nature of the 
patient's employment, shall within 48 hours of such attendance send to the State 
board of health a report stating: 

(a) Name, address, and occupation of patient. 

(b) Name, address, and business of employer. 

(c) Nature of disease. 

(rf) Such other information as may be reasonably required by the State board of 
health. 

The reports herein required shall be on or in conformity with the standard schedule 
blanks hereinafter provided for. The posting of the report, within the time required, 
in a stamped envelope addressed to the office of the State board of health, shall be a 
compliance with this section. 

Sec 2. The State board of health shall prepare and furnish free of cost to the 
physicians included in section 1, standard schedule blanks for the reports required 
under this act. The form and contents of such blanks shall be determined by the 
State board of health. 

Sec. 3. Reports made under this act shall not be evidence of the facts therein stated 
in any action arising out of the disease therein reported. 

Sec. 4. It shall furthermore be the duty of the State board of health to transmit a 
copy of all such reports of occupational disease to the chief factory inspector. 

Sec. 5. This act shall take effect on the 1st day of July, 1915. 

STANDARDS FOR DRUGS. 
(Laws 1915, chap. 1241.) 

Section 1. Section 3 of chapter 183 of the General Laws, entitled "Of the maint - 
nance of purity in foods and drugs, by prohibiting the manufacture or sale of adulter- 
ated, misbranded, or deleterious foods or drugs," is hereby amended so as to read aa 
follows: 

"Sec. 3 (aa amended). A drug shall be deemed to be adulterated: 

"First. If, when sold under or by a name recognized in the United States Pharma- 
copoeia or National Formulary, it differs from the standard of strength, quality, or 
purity prescribed therein. 

"Second. If its strength, quality, or purity falls below the professed standard under 
which it is sold: Provided, That in no case shall a drug be deemed to be adulterated, 
as differing from such professed standard, when the variation is caused by the evaoo- 
ration of any volatile ingredient or by other changes beyond control, happening after 
the manufacture of the same: Provided, That due care be taken to preservo its 
integrity." 



March 10, 191« 670 

South Carolina. 

SALE AND USE OF INTOXICATING LIQUORS. 
(Laws 1915, chap. 76.) 

An act to submit to the qualified electors of the State of South Carolina the question 
of the prohibition of the manufacture and sale of alcoholic liquors and beverages in 
the State and to provide for the carrying of these provisions into effect. 

Section 1. Election. — Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the State of South 
Carolina, That on Tuesday, the 14th day of September, 1915, an election shall be 
held pursuant to law submitting to the qualified electors of the State of South Carolina 
the question as to whether the manufacture and sale of alcoholic liquors and beverages 
shall be prohibited or continued in this State as now provided by law, and such 
election shall be held and conducted under tho laws in the manner now prescribed 
for regular elections. 

Sec 3. If result of election be for sale. — If the majority of the ballots so cast be "For 
the manufacture and sale of alcoholic liquors and beverages in South Carolina," any 
laws now existing and of force at the time of such election shall be and remain in full 
force and effect. 

Sec 4. If result be against sale — Winding up dispensaries. — Should the majority of the 
ballots so cast be "Against the manufacture and sale of alcoholic liquors and beverages 
in South Carolina then the manufacture and sale of alcoholic liquors- and beverages 
in this State shall be unlawful except as hereinafter provided, and the authorities in 
every county in this State, now or hereinafter vested with the control of dispensaries, 
where dispensaries for the sale of alcoholic liquors are now operating under existing 
laws shall proceed to wind up the affairs of such dispensaries and shall close tho samo 
on or before the 31st day of December, 1915; and no liquor shall be bought or con- 
tracted for or received by any county dispensary board after the result of said election 
is declared by the State board of canvassers. 

Sec 5. Manufacture and sale of alcohol permitted. — The manufacture and sale of 
alcohol shall bo allowed and permitted as now permitted by law. 

Sec 6. Alcoholic liquors defined. — Tho words alcoholic liquors and beverages, as 
used herein, shall be considered to be any liquor, beer, beverago, or compound, 
whether distilled or fermented or otherwise, by whatsoever name known or called 
which will produco intoxication, or which contains in excess of 1 per cent of alcohol, 
and is used as a beverago. 

Sec 7. Inconsistent acts repealed. — All acts or parts of acts inconsistent with the 
provisions of this act be, and the same are hereby, repealed. * * * 

(Laws 1915, No. 102.) 

An act to regulate the shipment ol spirituous, vinous, fermented, or malt liquors 
or beverages into this State, and to provide penalties lor the violation of this act. 

Section 1. Unlawful for intoxicating liquors to be shipped into State — Unlawful to 
receive same, except as provided.— Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the State of 
South Carolina, 1 hat it shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation, or com- 
pany to ship, transport, or convey any intoxicating liquors from a point without the 
State into this State, or from one point to another in this State, for the purpose of 
delivery, or to deliver the same to any person, firm, corporation, or company within 
this State, or for any person, firm, corporation, or company to receive, or be in pos- 
session of, any spirituous, vinous, fermented, or malt liquors or beverages containing 
more than 1 per cent of alcohol, for his, her, its, or their own use, or for tho use of any 
other person, firm, or corporation, except as hereinafter provided. 



671 March 10, 1916 

Bsc. 1, One gallon a month allowed. — Any person may order and receive from any 
point without the State not exceeding 1 gallon within any calendar month, for his 
or her personal use, of spirituous, vinous, fermented, or malted liquors, or beverages. 

Sec. 3. Unlawful to deliver intoxicating liquors except to consignee — Companies, cor- 
porations, etc., not liable/or damages/or nondelivery. — Jt shall be unlawful for any rail- 
road company, express company, corporation, or other common carrier to deliver any 
package containing intoxicating liquors or beverages containing more than 1 per cent 
of alcohol to any person other than the consignee and in no case shall any railroad, 
express company, corporation, or common carrier or person or agent of such railroad, 
express company, corporation, or other common carrier or person be liable for dam- 
ages for nondelivery of such liquor or package until the consignee appears in person 
at the place of business of the common carrier and signs in person for the package. 

Sec 4. Punishment for receiving liquors under false pretexts. — Any person obtaining 
any such package under any false or fraudulent pretext of any kind, or any agent of 
any common carrier delivering a package contrary to the provisions of this act, shall, 
upon conviction thereof, be fined not less than $100 nor more than $500 or be impris- 
oned in the county jail for not less than 30 days nor more than 6 months, or both, in 
the discretion of the court. 

Sec. 5. The storage of intoxicating liquors. — It shall be unlawful for any intoxicating 
liquors or beverages to be stored or kept in any place or club room or house in this 
State, whether for personal use or otherwise, and the liquors or beverages herein 
allowed to be imported, if stored, must be stored in the home or private room of the 
person or persons so ordering. 

Sec 6. Shipment to authorized dispensaries allowed. — Nothing in this act shall pre- 
vent the shipment or transportation of alcoholic liquors and beverages to or from any 
dispensary authorized by the laws of this State to sell same, in the county of such 
dispensary. 

Sec 7. Punishment for violation of this act. — Any person violating the provisions 
of this act shall be subject to a fine of not less than $100 or imprisonment for not less 
than three months, or both, in the discretion of the court. 

Sec 8. Shipment under statutes of State not interfered with. — Nothing herein con- 
tained shall prevent the sale or transportation of alcohol under, and in accordance 
with, the statutes of this State, as contained in Criminal Code of 1912, sections 799, 
SCO, 802-812, inclusive. 

South Dakota. 

SALE AND USE OP POISONS. 
(Laws 1915, ehap. 160.) 

Section 1. In any town in this State where there is no registered pharmacist, and 
there is a merchant handling, exclusively, goods other than goods used for food, or a 
merchant who handles goods used for food and who also handles goods other than 
those used for food in a separate department from that in which goods are handled and 
sold for food parposes, it shall be competent for any such merchant to sell poisonoua 
drugs known as Paris green, peroxide of hydrogen, formaldehyde, wood alcohol, rat 
poison, gopher poison, and insect powder: Provided, however, That this section shall 
not apply to the sale of strychnine, arsenic, corrosive sublimate, carbolic acid. 

Sec. 2. Such drugs, above enumerated, if sold by any such merchant as above 
provided, shall be sold only in original packages excepting peroxide of hydrogen, and 
shall be kept separate and apart from any place in which food products are kept for 
sale within such store, and each package shall be labeled and marked in plain and 
distinct letters "Poison " and with the figures of the "skull and cross bones" stamped 
thereon. 



March 10, 1916 672 

Sec. 3. Any such merchant selling any such poisonous drugs shall keep a register, 
and when he sells any of the same he shall record in his register the name of the pur- 
chaser, date of sale, kind of drug sold, amount of same, and for what purpose bought, 
which register shall be open at all times for inspection. 

Sec. 4. No merchant shall have the authority to sell any such poisonous drugs aa 
in the preceding sections provided until he or they shall have first procured a certifi- 
cate of authority so to do from the State board of pharmacy. Any such merchant 
may make written application to such board and upon receipt of such application, 
accompanied by a fee of $1, it shall be the duty of such State board of pharmacy to 
issue a certificate of authority, which certificate shall be valid for a period of one year 
from the date of its issuance and may be renewed upon the application of any such 
merchant and the payment of the fee prescribed herein. 

Sec. 5. Any person who knowingly violates any of the provisions of this act shall 
be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be punished by a fine of not 
less than $10 nor more than $50. 

SALE AND USE OP COCAINE AND NARCOTICS. 
(Laws 1915, chap. 161.) 

Section 1. That on and after the taking effect of this act it shall be unlawful for any 
person in the State of South Dakota to sell, barter, distribute, or give away any 
opium, coca leaves, alpha eucaine, beta eucaine, novocaine, or any compound, manu- 
facture, salt, derivative, or preparation thereof: Provided, That this act shall not 
apply- 
First. To the dispensing or distribution of any of said drugs to any patient by a 
duly licensed practicing physician in the State of South Dakota either in person or 
by a duly authorized nurse or attendant in charge of such patient; but provided such 
distribution or dispensing shall be in the course of his professional practice only, and 
that such physician shall personally attend such patient. 

Second. To the sale, dispensing, or distribution of any of said drugs by pharmacists 
registered under the laws of this State covering the practice of the profession of phar- 
macy to a consumer under and in pursuance to a written prescription issued by a duly 
licensed and practicing physician in this State: Provided, hcwerer, That such pre- 
scription shall be dated as of the date on which signed, and shall be signed by the 
physician who shall have issued the same. Such prescription shall not be filled later 
than five days after the date of writing and shall not be refilled. The person filling 
such prescription shall indorse them on the date of filling the same and the name and 
address of the person to whom 1 e delivers the drugs as prescribed. 

Third. To the sale or dispensing of any of the aforesaid drugs by any wholesale 
druggist, dealer, or jobber within this State to registered pharmacists within this State 
owning and conducting a retail drug store, or to a duly licensed and practicing physi- 
cian, dentist, or veterinary physician and surgeon within this State. 

Fourth. To the sale or distribution of any of the aforesaid drugs by any registered 
pharmacist owning and conducting a retail drug store within this State to a regularly 
licensed and practicing physician, dentist, or veterinarian physician and surgeon 
within this State. 

Fifth. To the administering of any of said dregs to any patient by a duly licensed 
and practicing physician within this State: Provided, however, That said administering 
shall be in the course of his professional practice only. 

Sixth. To the administering of any of the aforesaid drugs by any duly licensed 
veterinary physician or surgeon in this State to any animal which said veterinarian 
may be treating in the course of his professional practice. 

Sec. 2. That every wholesale or retail dealer in any of the drugs mentioned in 
section 1 of this act, and every physician, dentist or veterinarian dispensing, admin- 



673 March 10, 1910 

istering or keeping on hand any of such drugs, shall keep in his place of business 
or office a complete record or registry which shall be kept on the official order form and 
duplicate copies thereof issued by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue of the United 
States Treasury Department under the act of Congress approved December 17, 1914, 
entitled, "An act to provide for the registration of, with collectors of internal revenue, 
and to enforce a special tax for all persons who produce, import, manufacture, com- 
pound, deal in, dispense, sell, distribute or give away opium or coca leaves, their 
salts, derivatives, or preparations and for other purposes." All retail dealers and 
pharmacists doing business pursuant to the terms of this act shall likewise keep on 
file for a period of two years all prescriptions containing such drugs which have been 
filled by them. Said records of every character shall be open to inspection by all 
State, county or municipal officers who are charged with the enforcement of any law 
or municipal ordinance regulating the sale, prescribing, administering, dealing in, 
or distribution of the aforesaid drugs. Physicians who shall dispense or distribute 
any of the aforesaid drugs provided by this act shall keep a duplicate of all prescrip- 
tions issued by them for a term of two years, and such duplicate shall be subject to 
inspection by any of the officers named in this section. 

Sec. 3. That the possession or control of any of the aforesaid drug3, by any person 
other than those excepted in sections 1 and 2 of this act, shall be presumptive evidence 
of a violation of this act: Provided, That this section shall not apply to any employee of 
any person exempted as above who has such possession of control by virtue of his 
employment and not on his own account, or to any United States, State, or municipal 
officer, board, or other authorities who or which has possession of any of such drugs 
for purposes of investigation, enforcement of law, or otherwise, or to a warehouseman 
holding possession of same for a person exempted under the provisions of this act, 
or to common carriers engaged in transporting such drugs: Provided further, That it 
shall not be necessary to negative any of the aforesaid exemptions in any complaint, 
information, indictment, or other writ proceeding laid or brought under this act, 
and the burden of proof of any such exemption shall be upon the defendant. 

Sec. 4. That the word "person" as used in this act shall be construed to import 
the plural or singular, as the case demands, and shall include firms, corporations, 
companies, societies, and associations. 

Sec. 5. That it is hereby made the special duty of the food and drug commissioner 
of the State of South Dakota and his duly appointed assistants and inspectors to 
enforce the provisions of this act, and rules and regulations for its enforcement and 
for the keeping of the registry provided for in section 2 hereof shall be made by the 
said food and drug commissioner of this State. 

Sec. 6. That any person who shall disclose any of the information contained in 
the registries, prescriptions, or other records mentioned in this act, except for the 
purpose of the enforcement of the provisions of this act or of enforcing any other 
law of the State or the ordinances of any municipality shall be guilty of a misde- 
meanor, and shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined and imprisoned as hereinafter 
provided. 

Sec. 7. That the provisions of this act shall not be construed to apply to the sale, 
distribution, giving a l .vay, or dispensing of preparations and remedies which do not 
contain more than 2 grains of opium or more than one-fourth of a grain of morphine 
or more than one-eighth of a grain of heroin or more than 1 grain of codeine, or any 
salt or derivative of any of them, in 1 fluid ounce; or if a solid or semisolid preparations, 
in 1 avoirdupois ounce; or to liniments, ointments, or other preparations which are 
prepared for external use only, except liniments, ointments, and other preparations 
which contain cocaine or any of its salts or alpha or beta eucaine or any of their salts, 
or any synthetic substitute for them: Provide!, That such remedies and preparations 
are sold, distributed, given away, dispensed, or possessed a3 medicines and not for 
the purpose of evading the intentions and provisions of this act. The provisions 



March 10, 1916 674 

of this act shall not apply to decocainized coca leaves, or preparations made there- 
from, or to other preparations, of coca leaves which do not contain cocaine. 

Sec. 8. That no retail druggist or dealer shall have on hand at any one time in 
flake, powder, or crystal form a stock greater than 5 ounces of cocaine or of tropa- 
cocaine, hollo-cocaine, nova-cocaine, alpha-cocaine, beta-coraine, or of all of said 
drugs combined, and if the stock on hand of any one of said substances shall be as 
much as 5 ounces none of the other substances shall be kept on hand at the same 
time. No physician, dentist, or veterinarian shall have on hand at any one time a 
stock greater than 1 ounce of any of the drugs mentioned in this section or of all of 
said drugs combined, and if the stock of such physician, dentist, or veterinarian on 
hand at any one time shall be as much as 1 ounce none of the other of said drugs shall 
be kept on hand at the same time. Said drugs shall not be sold or given away in the 
flake or crystal form, but in solution only, which said solution shall not be stronger 
than 5 per cent. 

Sec 9. That it shall be unlawful for any physician to write, furnish, sell, or give to 
any person any prescription for any of the drugs mentioned in this act except when in 
the opinion of said physician the taking of such dmgs by the person for whom pre- 
scribed will bo beneficial to said person; and it shall also be unlawful for any physician 
to furnish, sell, administer, or give away to any person any of the aforesaid drugs 
except when in the opinion of said physician the taking of such drugs by the person 
to whom sold, given, or administered will be beneficial to such person: but this act 
shall not forbid the giving of any of said drugs by any physician in his professional 
practice to any assistant or to any nurse or attendant or the patient of such physician 
to be administered by said assistant, attendant, or nurse to such patient under the 
immediate direction of said physician. 

Sec. 10. That any person violating any of the provisions of this act shall be guilty 
of a misdemeanor, and on tho conviction thereof for the first offense shall be punished 
by a fine of not less than $50 or more than $100 or by imprisonment in the county jail 
for not exceeding 30 days, and for the second or any subsequent offense by a fine of 
not less than $500 or by imprisonment in the county jail for not less than 3 months, or 
by both such fine and imprisonment, and upon conviction for such second or subse- 
quent offense the court shall transmit a certified copy of the judgment of conviction 
to the examining board from which the license or certificate of registration of such 
pharmacist, physician, dentist, or veterinarian issued, and it shall be the duty of 
such examining board to forthwith cancel the license or certificate of registration of 
such pharmacist, physician, dentist, or veterinarian, and no further certificate or 
registration or license, as the case may be, shall be granted to such person for a period 
of one year from the date of such forfeiture. 

Sec. 11. All acts and parts of acts in conflict with this act are hereby repealed. 

DRUGS TO BE ANNOUNCED ON LABEL. 
(Laws 1915, chap. 191.) 

Be it enacted by the Legi'lature of the State of South Dakota, That sections 11 and 12 
of chapter 238, Session Laws of 1911, as amended by chapter 332, Session Laws of 
1913, be amended to read as follows: 

Seo. 11 (as amended). Whenever a manufacturer, jobber, firm, association, corpo- 
ration, or person manufacturing or selling a brand of concentrated commercial feed- 
ing stuffs or medicinal stock food shall have filed the statements required in sections 
4 and 8 and paid the inspection fee as provided in sections 5 and 9 of this act, he 
or they shall be entitled to a certificate from the State food and drug commissioner 
setting forth said facts, and no agent of such manufacturer, importer, jobber, firm, 
association, corporation, or person shall be required to file such statement or pay 
such inspection fee upon such brand: Provided, That neither the statement required 



675 March 10, 1916 

in section 8 nor the label required in section 7 shall bear the name of any substance 
or material which is not present in the medicinal stock food in an amount sufficient 
to produce the therapeutic effects and physiological action ascribed to such substance 
or material by standard textbooks on materia medica and therapeutics, when such 
medicinal stock foods shall be administered in the doses recommended by the manu- 
facturer, jobber, firm, or agent therefor: Provided further, That the label as required 
in section 7 shall bear a true statement in terms of percentage by we'ght showing 
the proportion of any substance or substances present in said medicinal stock food 
which are not claimed to possess or recognized as possessing value as a remedy, medi- 
cine, or condiment; and the State food and drug commissioner shall cause to betaken 
samples of commercial feeding stuffs and medicinal stock foods manufactured, sold, 
or offered or exposed for sale in this State, and shall have such samples analyzed in 
the laboratories of the State food and drug department. He shall prepare and cause 
to be published and distributed to all newspapers of the State and to such persons 
as may be interested or may apply therefor bulletins giving the results of the analysis 
of samples of medicinal stock foods, commercial feeding stuffs, foods, drugs, paints, 
oils and all other products or commodities which he is authorized by law to inspect 
or examine. Such bulletins shall contain reports of inspections, results of analysis 
made as above provided, together with popular explanation of the same, and such 
other information as may come to the commissioner in his official capacity relating 
to the adulteration, misbranding, or illegal sale of the aforesaid products or com- 
modities. 

Sec. 12. All moneys received by the State food and drug commissioner in the 
enforcement of this act shall be reported in detail monthly and deposited monthly 
with the State treasurer to the credit of the general fund of this State. 

SALE AND USE OP INTOXICATING LIQUORS. 
(Laws 1915, chap. 226.) 

Section 1. It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly sell, give, barter, or 
to offer to sell, give, or barter, to any person who has taken a drink cure any spirituous 
liquors, wine, beer, or alcoholic drink or beverage, or to invite or solicit any such 
person to enter any place where such liquors are sold. 

Sec 2. Any person violating the provisions of section 1 of this act shall be guilty 
of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof be punished for the first offense by 
a fine of not less than §10 nor more than $50 and costs of prosecution and be com- 
mitted to the county jail until such fine and costs of prosecution are paid. For the 
second and each subsequent offense he shall be punished by a fine of not less than 
$50 nor more than $100 and all costs of prosecution, or be imprisoned in the county 
jail not to exceed 60 days. 

Sec 3. It shall be the duty of the State's attorney to investigate and prosecute all 
complaints laid before him under this act. 

(Laws 1915, chap. 227.) 

An act entitled "An act to amend section 2856 of the Revised Political Code of 1903, 
as amended by chapter 166 of the Session Laws of 1913," relating to the issuance of 
permits for the sale of intoxicating liquors, providing for the calling and holding of 
an election on the question of the sale of such liquor, and for the signing and riling 
of a petition for such election and providing the qualifications for the signers of 
such petition. 

Section 1. That section 2856 of the Revised Political Code of 1903, as amended 
by chapter 166 of the Session Laws of 1903, as amended by chapter 254 of the Session 
Laws of 1913, be amended to read as follows: 
46 



March 10, 1916 676 

"Sec. 2856 (as amended). Question to be submitted to the voters, when. — At the 
annual municipal election held in any township, town, or city in this State for gen- 
eral municipal purposes the question of granting permits to sell intoxicating liquors 
at retail within the corporate limits of such township, town, or city shall be submitted 
to the legal voterB thereof upon petition signed by 25 legal freeholder voters of such 
township, town, or city, to be filed with the clerk or auditor of such townsh'ip, town, 
or city 30 days before election, which petition shall state that a vote is desired upon 
such question: 

"Provided. That 'freeholder' as us°d in this act shall be defined to be one who owns 
the legal title to or owns an undivided share or interest in at least one entire lot or 
parcel of ground within the township, town, or city whore such vote is to be taken, 
which lot or parcel of ground shall be the size commonly recognized as a full lot in the 
town or city in which such vote is to be taken as shown by the official plat of said 
town or city or its additions; and in townships in which said vote is to be taken said 
parcel of ground must be at least 1 acre in such township, town, or city, together 
with the improvements thereon; such interest in such lot or parcel of ground shall 
bo at least the assessed valuation of $25, as shown by the returns of the last assess- 
ment previous to the signing of said" petition, and that each of such freeholders shall 
have been a freeholder for at least one year and a qualified voter of such township, 
town, or city for one year prior to the date of such election. The question shall be 
submitted upon a separate ballot conforming to the general election laws of the State, 
upon which ballot there shall be printed the words, 'Shall intoxicating liquors be sold 
at retail?' Before which words shall be printed the words 'Yes' and 'No,' and at 
the left of each word 'Yes' and 'No' shall be placed a square or circle, and any voter 
in favor of the sale of such liquors as aforesaid shall mark in the square or circle at 
at the left of the word 'Yes' with a cros3 (X), and any voter opposed to such sale 
shall mark in the square or circle at the left of the word 'No' with a cross (X); and 
if a majority of the voters of such township, town, or city shall vote in favor of such 
sale of intoxicating liquors at retail, the corporate authorities thereof shall grant 
permission for sdeh sale for the ensuing year in accordance with the provisions of 
this act." 

Sec. 2. That all acts and parts of acts in conflict with this act are hereby repealed. 

METHYL ALCOHOL. 
(Laws 1915, chap. 307.) 

Section 1. That it shall.be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation, by him- 
self, herself, itself, or themselves, or by his, her, its, or their agents, servants, or em- 
ployees, to sell, offer for sale, expose tor sale, deal in, or supply, or have in possession 
with intent to sell, offer for sale, deal in, or supply, or give away, any article of food or 
drink or any medicinal or toilet preparation intended for human use internally or 
externally which contains any wood alcohol or methyl alcohol, either crude or refined, 
under or by whatever name or trade-mark the same may be called or known. 

Sec. 2. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation, by himself, horseif, 
itself, or themselves, or by his, her, its, or their agents, servants, or employee", to sell, 
offer for sale, expose for sale, deal in, or supply, or have in possession vvith intent to 
sell, offer for sale, give away, deal in, or supply, any wood alcohol or methyl alcohol, 
either crude or refined, under or by whatever name or trade-mark it may be called or 
known unless the container in which it is sold, offered for sale, exposed for sale, given 
away, deait in, or supplied 'lull bear a nofice containing the following device and 
words conspicuously printed or stenciled thereon: 



677 March j 0,3016 

(Skull and crossbones.) 

P0IS5N. 

WOOD ALCOHOL. 

WARNING: It is unlawful to use this fluid in any article of food, beverage, or 
medicinal or toilet preparation for human use internally or externally. 

Sec. 3. The State food and drug commissioner shall be charged with the enforce- 
ment of this act. 

Sec. 4. The State's attorney of each county of this State is hereby authorized, upon 
complaint on oath of the food and drug commissioner, to prosecute before any court of 
competent jurisdiction, in the name of the State of South Dakota, a proper action or 
proceeding against any person or persons violating the provisions of this act. 

Sec 5. Any person, firm, or corporation who, by himself, themselves, or by his 
or their agents, servants, or employees, violates any of the provisions of sections 1, 2, 
and 3 of this act shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be 
punished by a fine of not less than S50 nor more than $200, or by imprisonment in the 
county jail not more than three months. 

Sec 6. All acts or parts of acts in conflict with this act are hereby repealed. 

Tennessee. 

SALE AND USE OF INTOXICATING I.IQI70HS. 
(Laws 1315, chap. 27.) 

An act to regulate soft-drink stands and the sale of soft drinks and to provide ways 
and means for the enforcement of this act. 

Section 1. Be it enacted by the Gemral Assembly of the State of Tennesace, That it 
shall be, and is hereby, made the duty of the pure food and drug inspector of the 
State and his duly authorized deputies and assistants to enforce the provisions of this 
act; that the words "soft drinks" as used in this act shall cover and include all liquids 
sold by retail or wholesale for use as drink, food, refreshment beverage, or stimulant; 
that the words "soft-drink stands," as used in this act, shall cover and include all 
drug stores, storehouses, shops, houses, buildings, stands, or places of whatever charac- 
ter or kind where soft drinks are kept for sale by retail or wholesale. 

Sec 2. Be it further enacted, That it shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or cor- 
poration to sell any soft drink which contains more than one-half of 1 per cent of 
alcohol, and the conducting, maintaining, conveying, or engaging in the sale of 
soft drink containing more than one-half of 1 per cent of alcohol in any soft-drink 
stand as herein defined, and all means, appliances, fixtures, appurtenances, materials, 
supplies, and instrumentalities used for the purpose of carrying on, maintaining, or 
conducting such unlawful business, is hereby declared to be a public nuisance, and 
may be abated under the provisions of this act. 

(Sections 3-11 provide for the enforcement of the act.) 

(Laws 1915, chap. 54.) 

An act to prohibit persons, clubs, associations, or lodges from storing, keeping, 
distributing, or in any way disposing of liquor containing more than one-half of 1 
per cent of alcohol on the premises of any association, lodge, or club, and providing 
penalty for the violation thereof. 

(Laws 1915, chap. 60.) 

Section 1. Defines druggists, physician", dentists, and veterinary surgeon?. 
Sec 2. Be it further enaclen, That it shall be unlawful for any druggist in the State 
of Tennessee to sell, barter, distribute or give away any alcoholic or intoxicating 



March 10, 1916 C78 

liquors except in pursuance of a prescription of a physician, dentist or veterinary 

surgeon, or for pharmaceutical, scientific, or sacramental purposes: Provided, however, 
That such prescription shall be given in the course of his professional practice only to 
a patient whom he shall personally attend at the patient's domicile, shall be dated 
on the day when written, shall not be filled wher presented at a date later than three 
days subsequent to the date thereon, and shall be signed by the person from whom 
dispensed with his true and correct full name and address: Provided farther. That such 
prescription shall be rilled once only, and that no copy thereof shall be issued by the 
druggist or pharmacist filling it: Provided further, That no druggist shall have in his 
possession an amount of alcoholic or intoxicating liquors which is greater than 1 per 
cent of the amount ot the capita] of sujh drug store returned for taxation. 

Sec. 3. Be it further enacted. That no alcoholic or intoxicating liquor sold for phar- 
maceutical, scientific, or sacramental purposes shall be sold except in pursuance of a 
written order from the purchaser, attached to and accompanied by his affidavit setting 
forth the exact purpose for which same is desired, the amount desired, and the true 
full name and address of the purchaser, which affidavit must be signed and verified 
before some officer authorized to administer an oath. 

Sec. 4. Be it further enaciel, That every druggist engaged in the sale of liquor for 
the purposes named in this act shall keep in his place of business a register, to be 
made in accordance with the rules and regulations hereinafter provided for. Said 
register shall plainly show all purchases made by him of intoxicating and alcoholic 
liquors, the amount purchased, the date purchased, and from whom purchased; 
he shall likewise keep a register which shall show all sales by him of said products, 
including the date on which sale is made, the amount sold, and to whom sold. All 
druggists doing business pursuant to the terms of this act shall likewise keep on file 
for a term of two years all prescriptions filled by them which call for alcoholic or 
intoxicating liquors and all orders for alcoholic or intoxicating liquors, as set forth in 
section 3 of this act. 

Said records of every character shall be open to inspection by all Federal, State, 
and municipal officials who are charged with the enforcement of any law or municipal 
ordinance regulating the sale, prescribing, dealing in, or distribution of alcoholic or 
intoxicating liquors. Physicians, dentists, and veterinary surgeons who shall pre- 
scribe any alcoholic or intoxicating liquor shall keep for a term of two years duplicates 
of all prescriptions signed by them, and said duplicates shall be open to the inspection 
by any of the officers named in this section. 

Sec. o. Be it further enacted, That it is hereby made the special duty of the pure 
food and drug inspector and his duly appointed assistant inspectors and chemists to 
specially enforce the provisions of this act, and rules and regulations for its enforce- 
meat shall be made by the said pure tood and drug inspector and the attorney general 
of the State. 

Sec. C. Violation of act a misdemeanor punishable by fine or imprisonment. 

Sec. 7. Be it further enacted, That this act take effect 30 days after its passage, the 
public welfare requiring it. 

Texas. 

SALE AND USE OF COCAINE AND NARCOTICS. 
(El Paso, Tex., Ord., June 3, 1915.) 

Section 1. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation, or association 
of persons to sell, barter, exchange, give away, or have in his or their possession, 
within the city limits of El Paso, Tex., any marihuana or Indian hemp. 

Sec. 2. Any person <vho shall violate any of the provisions ol section 1 of this ordi- 
nance shall be punished by a fine of not more than $200. 



679 



March 10, 1916 



Utah. 

8AIE AND USE OF POISONS. 
(Laws 1915, chap. 66.) 

An act to regulate the sale and use of poisons in the State of Utah, providing a penalty 
for the violation thereof, and repealing sections 1727x and 1727x1, Compiled Laws 
of Utah, 1907, and sections 1727x2 and 1727x3, Compiled Laws of Utah, 1907, entitled 
"Patent medicines," as amended by chapter 117, Laws of Utah, 1911, as amended 
by chapter 48, Laws of Utah, 1913. 

Section 1. Unlawful to sell certain poisons without label; false representations; 
registry of sales.- — It shall be unlawful for any person to vend, sell, give away, or fur- 
nish, either directly or indirectly, any poisons enumerated in schedules "A" and 
"B" in section 7 ot this act, as hereinafter set forth, without labeling the package, 
box, bottle, or paper in which said poison in contained, with the name of the article, 
the word "poison," and the name and place of business of the person furnishing the 
same. Said label shall be substantially in the form hereinafter provided. It shall 
be unlawful to sell or deliver any of the poisons named in schedule "A" or any other 
dangerously poisonous drug, chemical, or medicinal substance which may from time 
to time be designated by the State board of pharmacy, unless on inquiry it is found 
that the person desiring the same is aware of its poisonous character and it satisfac- 
torily appears that it is to be used for a legitimate purpose. 

It shall be unlawful for any person to give a fictitious name or make any false rep- 
resentations to the seller or dealer when buying any of the poisons thus enumerated: 
Provided, That this prohibition shall not apply to an officer or inspector of the State 
board of pharmacy in the performance of the duties enjoined by law upon said board 
or to any person acting under authority of said board in the performance of said duties. 
Printed notice of all such additions to the schedule of poisons named and provided 
for in this section and the antidote adopted by the board of pharmacy for such poisons 
shall be given to all registered pharmacists with the next following renewal of their 
certificates. It shall be unlawful to sell or deliver any poisons included in schedule 
" A " or the additions thereto without making or causing to be made an entry in a book, 
kept solely for that purpose, stating the date and hour of sale, and name, address, and 
signature of the purchaser, the name and quantity of the poison sold, the statement 
by the purchaser of the purpose for which it is required, and the name of the dispen- 
ser, who must be a duly licensed pharmacist: Provided, however, That said entry shall 
be made out in full, in ink, before said signature of the purchaser is made thereto, and 
that said entry shall be made by said dispenser himself and not by any person who is 
not a duly registered pharmacist or duly registered assistant pharmacist. Said book 
shall be in form substantially as follows: 



Date 
and 
hour. 


Name of pur- 
chaser. 


Residence. 


Kind and 
quality. 


Purposo of 
use. 


Signature of 
druggist. 


Signature of 
purchaser. 













































This book shall always be open for inspection by the proper authorities, and shall 
be preserved for at least five years after the date of the last entry therein. 

Sec. 2. Form of label; sale to minors; unlawful. — The label required by this act 
to be placed on all packages of poison shall be printed upon red paper in distinct white 
letters, or in distinct red letters upon white paper, and shall contain the word "poison," 
the "vignette" representing the skull and crossbones and the name and address of the 



March 10, 1916 680 

person or firm selling the same. The name of an antidote, if any there be, for the 
poison sold shall also be upon the package. No poison shall be sold or delivered to 
any person who is less than 18 years of age. 

Sec. 3. Antidotes; to appear on poison labels; duty of pharmacy board, — It shall be 
the duty of the State board of pharmacy to adopt a schedule of what in their judgment 
are the most suitable common antidotes for the various poisons usually sold. After 
the board has adopted the schedule of antidotes as herein provided for, they shall 
have the same printed and shall forward by mail one copy to each person registered 
upon their books and to any other person applying for the same. The particular 
antidote adopted (and no other) shall appear on the poison label provided for in sec- 
tion 2 of this act, or be attached to the package containing said poison. The board 
shall have power to revise and amend the list of antidotes from time to time as to them 
may seem advisable. The entries in the poison book and the printed or written 
matter provided for in sections 2 and 3 of this act shall be in the English language: 
Provided, That the vendor of said poison may enter the same in any foreign language 
he may dcv'e, in addition to said entry and label in English. 

Sec. 4. Restriction of sale; when; hoip. — "When in the opinion of the State board of 
pharmacy it is in the interest of the public health, they are hereby empowered to 
further restrict or prohibit the retail sale of any poison, by rules not inconsistent with 
the provisions of this act. by them to be adopted, and which rules must bo applicable 
to all persons alike. It shall be the duty of the board, upon request, to furnish any 
dealer with a copy of the laws relating to articles, preparations, and compounds the 
sale of which is prohibited or regulated by this act. 

Sec 5. Sale in original packages; proviso. — Wholesale dealers and pharmacists shall 
affix or cause to be affixed to every bottle, box. parcel, or other inclosure of any original 
package containing any of the articles named in schedule "A," the additions thereto, 
or in sections 8 and 9 of this act a suitable label or brand with the word "Poison," but 
they are hereby exempted from the registration of the sale of such articles when sold 
at wholesale to a registered pharmacist, physician, dentist, or veterinary surgeon duly 
licensed to practice in the Stale: Provided. That the provisions of this act shall not 
apply to the sale of such upon the prescriptions of practicing physicians, dentists, or 
veterinary surgeons who are duly licensed to practice in this State: And provided 
further. That wholesale dealers are hereby exempted from the registration of the sale 
of the articles enumerated in schedule "A" of section 7 of this act where such salea 
are made for assaying, metallurgical, scientific, or industrial uses and purposes. 

Sec. 6. Frovides for the enforcement of provisions of act, and the employment of 
special counsel. 

Sec. 7. Penally for violations; schedules defined. — * * * Schedule "A": Ar- 
senic, its compounds and preparations; corrosive sublimate and other poisonous deriv- 
atives, or mercury, corrosive sublimate tablets, antiseptic tablets containing corrosive 
sublimate, cyanide of potassium, strychnine, hydrocyanic acid, oils of croton, rue, tansy, 
pennyroyal, savin, ergot and cotton root and their preparations, phosphorus and its 
poisonous derivatives and compounds, compound solution of cresol, lysol, strophan- 
thus or its preparations, aconite, belladonna, mix vomica, veratrum viride, their 
preparations, alkaloids, or derivatives, and poison containing any of the poisons 
enumerated in this schedule. 

The following is schedule "B": Hydrochloric acid, nitric acid, oxalic acid, sul- 
phuric acid, bromine, chloroform cowhage, creosote, ether, solution of formaldehyde 
or formalin, cantharides, cocculus indicus, all their preparations, iodine or its tinc- 
tures, tartar emetic, and other poisonous derivatives of antimony, sugar of lead, sul- 
phate of zinc, and wood alcohol. 

Sec. 9. Carbolic acid; quantity of sale restricted; proviso.— The sale or furnishing of 
carbolic acid (phenol) in quantities of less than 1 pound is prohibited unless upon 
the prescription of a physician, dentist, or veterinary surgeon duly licensed to practice 



681 



March 10. 1916 



in this State, but this prohibition shall not apply to solutions of carbolic acid (phenol) 
containing not over 10 per cent of the carbolic acid (phenol) and not less than 10 per 
cent of ethyl alcohol. All sales of carbolic acid (phenol) thus diluted so as to contain 
no more than 10 per cent of carbolic acid (phenol) may be made under the same con- 
ditions as the drugs enumerated in schedule "B" as found in section 7, but sale3 of 
carbolic acid (phenol) containing more than 10 per cent of said acid shall be registered 
subject to the same regulations as the poisons enumerated in schedule "A" as Lund 
in section 7. 

SALE AND USB OF COCAINE AND NARCOTICS. 

(Laws 1915, chap. 60.) 

Sec 8. Narcotic drugs; unlawful lo sell except upon prescription; form; registry; pro- 
two. — It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to sell, furnish, or give 
away, or offer to sell, furnish, or give away, or to have in their or his possession, any 
cocaine, opium, morphine, codeine, heroin, alpha eucaine, beta eucaine, nova caine, 
flowering tops and leaves, extracts, tinctures and other narcotic preparations of hemp 
or loco weed (cannabis sativa), Indian hemp, or chloral hydrate, or any of the salts, 
derivatives, or compounds of the foregoing substances, or any preparation or compound 
containing any of the foregoing substances or their salts, derivatives, or compounds, 
excepting upon the written order or prescription of a physician, dentist, or veterinary 
surgeon licensed to practice in this State, which order or prescription shall be dated 
and shall contain the name of the person for whom prescribed, written in by the 
person writing said prescription, or if ordered by a veterinary surgeon it shall state 
the kind of animal for which ordered and shall be signed by the person giving the 
prescription or order. Such order or prescription shall be permanently retained on 
file by the person, firm, or corporation who shall compound or dispense the articles 
ordered or prescribed, and it shall not be again compounded or dispensed excepting 
upon the written order of the prescriber for each and every subsequent compounding 
or dispensing. No copy or duplicate of such written order or prescription shall be 
made or delivered to any person, but the original shall bo at all times open to inspec- 
tion by the prescriber and properly authorized officers of the law and shall be pre- 
served for at least three years from the date of the filing thereof: Provided, That the 
above provisions shall not apply to sales at wholesale by jobbers, wholesalers, and 
manufacturers to pharmacies, as defined in chapter 1, title 62, Compiled Laws of 
Utah, 1907, entitled "Pharmacy"; or physicians, nor to each other, nor to the sale at 
retail in pharmacies by pharmacists to physicians, dentists, or veterinary surgeons 
duly licensed to practice in this State: Provided further, That all such wholesale 
jobbers, wholesalers, and manufacturers in this section mentioned shall, before delivery 
of any of the articles in this section enumerated, make or cause to be made, in a book 
kept for that purpose only, an entry of the sale of any such article, stating the date 
of such sale and quantity and name of the article and form in which sold, the true name 
and true address of the purchaser, the name of the person by whom such entry and 
sale was made; also a statement showing how delivery was made, whether delivered 
personally or forwarded by mail, express, or by freight., which book shall be sub- 
stantially as follows: 



Date of sale. 



Quantity and name 
ot artijle. 



Name of purchaser. 



Hot delivers.!. 



Name o r person 
seiiin?. 



March 10, 1916 682 

And said book shall always be open for inspection by any peace officer or any mem- 
ber of the board of pharmacy or any inspector authorized by said board, and such book 
shall be preserved for at least five years after the date of the last entry therein. The 
taking of any order, or making of any contract or agreement, by any traveling repre- 
sentative, or any employee, or any person, firm, or corporation, for future delivery in 
this State, of any of the articles or drugs mentioned in this section shall be deemed a 
sale of said articles or drugs by said traveling representative or employee, within the 
meaning of the provisions of this act: Provided further, That a true and correct copy of 
all orders, contracts, or agreements taken for narcotic drugs specified in this section 
shall be forwarded by registered mail to the secretary of the State board of pharmacy 
within 24 hours after the taking of such order, contract, or agreement, unless such 
order, contract, or agreement is recorded by entry in a book used for that purpose only, 
of some wholesale jobber, wholesaler, or manufacturer permanently located in this 
State, as provided for in this section. It shall be unlawful for any practitioner of medi- 
cine, dentistry, or veterinary medicine to furnish to or prescribe for the use of any 
habitual user of the same, or of anyone representing himself as such, any cocaine 
opium, morphine, codeine, heroin, or chloral hydrate, or any salt, derivative, or com- 
pound of the foregoing substances or their salts, derivatives, or compounds; and it 
shall also be unlawful for any practitioner of medicine or dentistry to prescribe any of 
the foregoing substances for any person not under his treatment in the regular practice 
of his profession, or for any veterinary surgeon to prescribe any of the foregoing sub- 
stances for the use of any human being. 

Provided, however, That the provisions of this section shall not be construed to pre- 
vent any duly licensed physician from furnishing or prescribing in good faith as their 
physician, by them employed as such, for any habitual user of any narcotic drugs who 
is under his professional care, such substances as he may deem necessary for their 
treatment, when such prescriptions are not given or substances furnished for the pur- 
pose of evading the purpose of this act: Provided, That such licensed physician shall 
report in writing, over his signature, by registered mail, to the office of the State board 
of pharmacy, within 24 hours after the first treatment, each and every habitual user 
of such narcotic drugs, as are enumerated in this section, whom he or she has taken, in 
good faith, under his or her professional care for the cure of such habit, such report to 
contain the date, name, and address of such patient, and the name and quantity of the 
narcotic or narcotics prescribed in such treatment: Provided further , That the provi- 
sions immediately foregoing shall not apply to any licensed physician treating such 
habitue in good faith who personally administers such narcotics enumerated in this 
section, after writing a prescription therefor: And provided further, That the above 
provisions shall not apply to preparations sold or dispensed without a physician's pre- 
scription containing not more than 2 grains of opium, or one-fourth grain of morphine, 
or 1 grain of codeine, or one-sixth grain of cocaine, or one-fourth grain of heroin, or 
one-sixth grain of eucaine, or one-sixth grain novacaine, or one-half grain extract 
cannabis indica. or one-sixth grain beta eucaine, or 10 grains chloral hydrate .in 1 fluid 
ounce, or, if a solid preparation, in 1 ounce avoirdupois; or to liniments, ointments, or 
other preparations which are prepared for external use only, except liniments, oint- 
ments, and other preparations which contain cocaine or any of its salts, or alpha or 
beta eucaine or any of their salts, or any synthetic substitute for them: Provided, 
That such remedies and preparations are sold, distributed, given away, dispensed, or 
possessed as medicines and not for the purpose of evading the intentions and provisions 
of this act. 

Sec. 8a. Posces&ion of certain pipe', and preparation? unlawful; penalty. — The pos- 
session of a pipe or pipes or other contrivance? used for smoking opium (commonly 
known as opium pipes) or the usual attachment or attachments thereof, or extracts, 
tinctures, or other narcotic preparations ot hemp, or loco weed, their preparations or 



683 March 10, 191G 

compounds (except corn remedies containing not more than 15 grains of the extract 
or fluid of hemp to the ounce, mixed with not less than five times its weight of sali- 
cylic acid combined with collodion) is hereby made a misdemeanor, and upon con- 
viction thereof shall be punishable by the penalties prescribed in section 7 of thi- act. 

Sec. 8b. Search and seinire; disposition of instruments and narcotic* confiscated. — All 
narcotic drugs specified in section 8 and also all pipes used for smoking opium (com- 
monly known as opium pipes) or the usual attachments thereto, or extracts, tinctures, 
or other narcotic preparations of hemp, or loco weed, their preparations or compounds 
(except corn remedies containing not more than 15 grains of the extract or fluid extract 
of hemp to the ounce, mixed with not loss than five times its weight of salicylic acid 
combined with collodion), may be seized by any peace officer, and in aid of such 
(seizure a search warrant or search warrants may be issued in the manner and form pre- 
scribed in chapter 5C, title 91, Compiled Laws of Utah, 1907, entitled, "Code of Crim- 
inal Procedure." All such narcotic drugs, pipes used for smoking opium (commonly 
known as opium pipes) or the usual attachments thereto, and all such hemp seized 
under the provisions of this act shall be ordered destroyed by the judge of the court 
in which final conviction was had; said order of destruction shall contain the name 
of the party charged with the duty of destruction as herein required: Provided, how- 
ever, That the judge shall turn all such evidence over to the State board of pharmacy 
for such destruction: And provided further , That the board of pharmacy may dispose 
of all narcotics now on hand or hereafter coming into their possession (other than 
smoking opium) either by gift to the medical director of Utah State prisons or Stato 
hospitals or by sale to wholesale druggists, the funds received from such sales to bo 
applied by the board of pharmacy to the carrying out of the provisions of this act or 
of the act creating such Utah State board of pharmacy. 

Sec. 8c. License of pharmacist may be revoked; when; restoration. — The board may 
revoke the registration and license of any registered pharmacist or assistant pharmacist 
upon conviction of the second offense for violating any of the provisions of sections 
8 or 8a of this act, and in such case said registration shall not be restored before the 
period of one year from the date of said revocation. 

(Laws 1915, chap. 15.) 

An act prohibiting the delivery of poisons, drugs, explosives, or weapons to State, 
prisoners. 

Section 1. Delivery of poisons, weapon?, etc., prohibited- penalty. — Every person 
who, without the consent of the warden of the Utah State prison, shall deliver to any 
convict or person within the State prison, or who shall give or deliver to any convict 
when outside of the State prison, or leave, deposit, or place at or near any camp or 
other place where convicts are kept at work on public roads or otherwise, or who shall 
leave within the Utah State prison grounds, or within any cell or cell house or build- 
ings cf any kind belonging to said State prison, or who shall leave, deposit, or place 
at or near any such buildings, grounds, or premises, any explosives or explosive sub- 
stance of any kind or character, or any poison of any kind, or any opium, or any prepa- 
ration of like character, or any preparation commonly called "dope" or any substi- 
tute therefor, or any deleterious drug of any kind, or any knife, dirk, or any weapon 
of any kind or character whatsoever, including firearms of all kinds, or any imple- 
ment, instrument, or substance which can be used by any convict or any person in 
said State prison as a means of injuring the warden, his deputy, or any guard, convict, 
or any person whomsoever, or which can be used as a moans of escape from said State 
prison by any such convict or person, shall be deemed guilty of a felony, and upon 
conviction shall be punished by imprisonment in the Utah State prison at hard labor 
for a term of not more than 10 years. 

Sec 2. Copies oj act to be posted. — The warden of the Utah State prison shall cause 
to be posted and maintained in conspicuous places outside and wiU'Li the buildings 



March 10, 1916 684 

and upon the grounds of said State prison, and at and near any camp where convicts 
are at work, copies of this act. 
Sec. 3. This act shall take effect upon approval. 

SALE AND USE OP INTOXICATING LIQUORS. 
(Laws 1915, chap. 100.) 

An act to amend section 208, Compiled Laws of Utah, 1907, as amended by chapter 
120, Laws of Utah, 1911, relating to powers of city councils, and arranging the subdi- 
visions of said section into independent sections to be known as sections 206 to 20.6x87, 
inclusive. 

Sec 206x41. Manufacture and sale of intoxicating liquors. — To license and regulate 
or prohibit the manufacturing, selling, giving away, or disposition in any manner of 
any intoxicating liquors; provided no license for such purpose shall be issued by the 
city council of any city where the qualified electors of such city have voted "against 
sale" of intoxicating liquors, and where the qualified electors have voted "against 
sale " of intoxicating liquors the city council of such city shall prohibit the manu- 
facturing, selling, giving away, or disposition in any manner of any intoxicating liquors, 
except the manufacture thereof as provided by law, and in any city where the quali- 
fied electors have voted "for sale" of intoxicating liquors, such city council shall 
have the right to determine the amount to be paid for liquor licenses, as provided by 
law, and said licenses shall be subject to the same regulations as are required by the 
general laws of the State, and to provide such other reasonable regulations as such city 
council may deem advisable. 

PRACTICE OP PHARMACY. 
(Laws 1915, chap. 65.) 

An act amending section 1715, Compiled Laws of Utah, 1907, as amended by chapter 
126, Laws of Utah, 1909, providing authority in the State board of pharmacy to refuse 
registration, either original or renewal, as pharmacists or assistant pharmacists to 
applicants for such registration and providing for the revocation of such registration 
under certain conditions. 

Section 1. Section amended.— That section 1715, Compiled Laws of Utah, 1907, as 
amended by chapter 120, Laws of Utah, 1909, be, and the same is hereby, amended to 
read as follows: 

"Sec 1715 (as amended). The board shall have the right to refuse registration to 
applicants whose examination or credentials do not present evidence of their compe- 
tency satisfactory to said board. * * * The said board of pharmacy shall have the 
power and authority to employ inspectors of pharmacy, and to inspect during business 
hours all pharmacies, dispensaries, stores, and places in which drugs or medicines or 
poisons are compounded, dispensed, or retailed." 

Vermont. 

SALE AND USE OP COCAINE AND NARCOTICS. 
(Laws 1915, No. 197.) 

Section 1. On and after the 1st day of July, 1915, it shall be unlawful for any per- 
son, firm, or corporation to sell, furnish, give away, or deliver any opium, morphine, 
heroin, codeine, cocaine, cannabis indica, cannabis sativa, or preparation thereof, or 
any salt or compound of said substances, except upon the written prescription or writ- 
ten order of a registered physician, dentist, or veterinary surgeon, bearing the name 
of the physician, dentist, or veterinary surgeon giving it, which prescription when 
tilled shall show the date of each filling and shall be retained on file by the druggist 
filling it for a period of at least two years, and it shall not again be filled except upon 



685 March 10, 1916 

the order of the prescriber, given in person or in writing. The prescription shall not 
be copied except for the purpose of record by the druggist filling the same, and it shall 
at all times be open to inspection by the officers of the State board of health, the board 
of registration in pharmacy rid its authorized agents, and by the police authorities 
and police officers of cities and towns. But the provisions of this act shall not apply 
to prescriptions, nor to the sale, distribution, giving away, or dispensing of prepara- 
tions and remedies, if such prescriptions, preparations, or remedies do not contain moro 
than 2 grains of opium, or more than one-quarter of a grain of morphine, or more than 
one-eighth of a grain of heroin, or more than 1 grain of codeine, or more than one-half 
of a grain of extract of cannabis indica, or more than one- half of a grain of extract of 
cannabis sativa, or any salt or compound of any of them in 1 fluid ounce, or, if a solid 
or semisolid preparation, to the avoirdupois ounce; nor to liniments, ointments, or 
other preparations which are prepared for external use only except liniments, oint- 
ments, and other preparations which contain cocaine or any of its salts; nor to com- 
pound medicinal tablets, pills, or powders containing not over one-twentieth of a grain 
pf morphine or one-quarter of a grain of codeine or any of their salts, except heroin, 
to each pill, powder, or tablet: Provided, That such preparations, remedies, or pre- 
scriptions are sold, distributed, given away, or dispensed in good faith as medicines, 
and not sold for the purpose of evading the provisions of this act. 

Sec. 2. It shall be unlawful for any practitioner of veterinary medicine or surgery 
to prescribe any of the drugs mentioned in section 1 of this act for the use of a human 
being. 

Sec. 3. The provisions of this act shall not be construed to prevent any lawfully 
authorized practitioner of medicine or of veterinary medicine or of dentistry from 
prescribing, administering, or dispensing any drug that may be indicated for any 
patient under his care: Provided, That such prescribing, administering, or dispensing 
is not for the purpose of evading the provisions of this act: And provided further, That 
every physician, veterinarian, and dentist shall keep a record in a suitable book of 
the names and addresses of all patients to whom he dispenses narcotics. 

Sec: 4. Any manufacturer or jobber and any wholesale druggist arid any registered 
pharmacist, physician, veterinarian, or dentist may sell opium, morphine, codeine, 
cocaine, heroin, cannabis indica, cannabis sativa, or any preparation thereof, or any 
salt or compound of such substances, to any manufacturer, jobber, wholesale druggist, 
registered pharmacist, physician, veterinarian, or dentist, or to any incorporated 
hospital; but such substances or preparations, except such as are included within 
'the exemptions set forth in section 1, shall be sold only upon a written order duly 
signed by such manufacturer, jobber, wholesale druggist, pharmacist, physician, 
Veterinarian, dentist, or superintendent of such incorporated hospital, which order 
; shall state the article or articles ordered and the date. The said orders shall be kept 
on file in the laboratory, warehouse, pharmacy, or store in which they are fdled, by 
the proprietor thereof or his successors, for a period of not lsss than two years from 
the date of delivery, and shall be at all times open to inspection by officers of the 
State board of health, members of the board of registration in pharmacy, or their 
authorized agents, and by the police authorities and police officers of cities and towns. 

Sec. 5. Any person who, for the purpose of evading or assisting in the evasion of 
any provision of this act, shall falsely represent that he is a physician, dentist, or 
veterinarian, or that he is a manufacturer, jobber, wholesale druggist, or pharmacist, 
or an agent or an employee of an incorporated hospital, or who, not being an authorized 
physician, dentist, or veterinarian, makes or alters a prescription for any oi the said 
substances, shall be deemed guilty of a violation of this act. 

Sec. G. A person who violates a provision of the preceding sections of this act or 
wdio aids or abets another in the violation thereof shall be fined not more than H,C00 
nor less than 550, or be imprisoned not more than one year, or both. Justices and 



March 10, 1910 686 

municipal and county courts shall have concurrent jurisdiction of offenses under 
this act. 

Sec. 7. The State board of health shall make a chemical analysis to determine the 
composition and quality of any substance mentioned in this act on application of the 
State's attorney of any county and shall furnish a certificate certifying to the compo- 
sition or quality thereof. Such certificate, under seal of the State board of health, 
which shall be affixed by the chemist thereof making the analysis, shall be prima 
facie evidence of the composition and quality of the substance analyzed. 

(Laws 1915, No. 124.) 

An act to amend section 3736 of the Public Statutes, as amended by No. 121 of the 
acts of 1910 and by section 1 of No. 134 of the acts of 1912, relating to the reformation 
of inebriates and the transportation thereof. 

Section 1. Section 3736 of the Public Statutes is hereby amended so as to read as 
follows: 

"Sec. 3736 (as amended). When a person shall have become an habitual drunkard 
or dipsomaniac, or so addicted to the intemperate use of narcotics or stimulants as to 
have lost the power of self-control, the probate court for the district in which he resides 
oris domiciled shall, on application of the selectmen of the town where he resides or is 
domiciled, or any of his relatives, upon reasonable notice to such person, make inquiry; 
and, if it finds him to be an habitual drunkard, or so far addicted to the intemperate 
use of narcotics or stimulants as to have lost the power of self-control, shall order such 
person to be taken by the sheriff of the county to an institution in this State where he 
can receive special treatment for such condition, or shall order him committed to the 
care, custody, and control of some suitable person, for not less than 4 or more than 12 
months, but if it shall find him to be a dipsomaniac, shall commit him to such institu- 
tion or person for three years; and if such person shall be indigent and such fact shall 
be so certified to by the selectmen of his town, the expense of commitment and treat- 
ment and the necessary expense in transportation to such institution shall be borne by 
the State; and upon his discharge the necessary expenses in transporting such person 
to the town from which he was committed shall be borne by the State and advanced 
by the superintendent of the institution to which he was committed; but in the event 
of the death of such person while an inmate of such institution, the expense of removal 
or burial shall be borne by the town from which he was committed." 

Sec. 2. This act shall take effect from its passage. 

(Laws 1915, No. 215.) 

An act to amend section 1 of No. 178 of the acts of 1908, relating to the commitment 
to the house of correction, State prison, Vermont Industrial School, and Vermont State 
Hospital for the Insane. 

Section 1. Section 1 of No. 178 of the acts of 1908 is hereby amended so as to read 
as follows: 

•'Section 1 (as amended). Commitments to the State prison, house of correction, and 
Vermont Industrial School shall be made by the sheriff of the county in which the 
crime was committed and to the Vermont State Hospital for the Insane when ordered 
committed by the county court or when an inebriate or dipsomaniac is ordered com- 
mitted by the probate court." 

POISONS IN ARTICLES OP COMMERCE. 
(Law 1915, No. 200.) 

Section 1. Section 5478 of the Public Statutes, as amended by section 3 of No. 159 of 
the acts of 1908, is hereby amended so as to read as follows: 

"Sec. 5478 (as amended). A member or officer of the State board of health, director, 
chemist, or inspector of (he State laboratory of hygiene, or a local health officer in his 



687 Mnrch 10, 1916 

own town may inspect the carcasses of slaughtered animals intended for food, and meat,' 
fish, vegetables, produce, fruit, or provisions, and for such purpose may enter any 
building, inclosure, or other place in which said carcasses or articles are stored, kept, 
or exposed for sale. If such careas3os or articles are designated for food for man, and 
found tainted, diseased, corrupted, decayed, unwholesome, or from any cause unfit 
for food, the local board of health, or such member or officer of the State board of 
health, director, chemist, or inspector of the State laboratory of hygiene shall seize the 
same and cause it to be forthwith destroyed, or disposed of otherwise than food." 

SALE AND USE OP INTOXICATING LIQUORS. 
(Laws 1915, No. 171.) 

An act to prohibit the sale of intoxicating liquors. 

Section 1. The words "intoxicating liquor," or "liquor," as used in this act, shall 
include spirituous or intoxicating liquor, malt liquors, lager beer, fermented wine, 
fermented cider, distilled spirits, and any beverage which contains more than 1 per 
cent of alcohol by volume at CO Fahrenheit. 

SeC. 2. No person shall furnish or sell, or expose or keep with intent to sell, any 
intoxicating liquor. But this act shall not apply to the furnishing of such liquor by 
a person in his private dwelling, unless to an habitual drunkard, or unless such dwell- 
ing becomes a place of public resort; nor to the sale of fermented cider by the barrel 
or cask of not less than 32 liquid gallons capacity, provided the same is delivered 
and removed from the vendor's premises in such barrel or cask at the time of such sale. 

Sec 3. An officer empowered to serve criminal process shall, without warrant, 
arrest a person whom he finds in the act of unlawfully selling, furnishing or transport- 
ing intoxicating liquor, and shall seize the liquors, vessels, and implements of sale in 
the possession of such person. lie shall detain such person and the property so seized 
until proper warrants can be procured or complaint made. 

Sec. 4. If a State's attorney of a county, or a grand jury of a town, or two reputable 
citizens of the county make complaint under oatli or affirmation, before a justice of 
such county ot a judge of a municipal court, that he or they have reason to believe 
that intoxicating liquor is kept or deposited in a dwelling house, store, shop, steamboat 
or water craft of any kind, depot, railway car or land carriage of any kind, warehouse, 
or other building or place in such county, for sale or distribution, contrary to law, 
such justice or judge shall issue a warrant to search the premises described in such 
complaint, and i 1 ' intoxicating liquor is found therein under circumstances warranting 
the belief that i> is intended for sale or distribution contrary to law, the officer shall 
seize and convey the same to some place of security and keep it until final action is 
had thereon. 

Sec. 5. A sheriff, deputy sheriff, constable, selectman, or grand juror who has 
information that intoxicating liquor is kept with intent to sell or is sold in a tent, 
shanty, hut, or a place of any kind for selling refreshments in a public place, except 
dwelling houses, on or near the ground of a cattle show, agricultural exhibition, mili- 
tary muster, or public occasion of any kind shall search such suspected place without 
warrant; and if such officer finds intoxicating liquor upon the premises, he shall seize 
the same and apprehend the keeper of such place and take him, with the liquor so 
seized, forthwith or ps soon as conveniently may be before a justice or municipal judge 
in whose jurisdiction the same is found; and thereupon such officer shall make a written 
complaint under oath, and subscribed by him, to such justice or judge, setting forth 
the finding of such liquor; and unon proof that the liquor is intoxicating and that 
the same was found in the possession of the accused in a tent, shanty, or other place, 
with intent to sell, the liquor seized sliall be adjudged forfeited and disposed of by- 
order of said justice or judge as provided in this act? and such owner or keep?r .'hull 
be proceeded against, as provided in this act, for keeping intoxicating liquor with 
intent to sell. 



Marcli 10, 1916 688 

Sec. 6. The officer who makes a seizure of intoxicating liquor, with or without 
warrant, shall forthwith give notice thereof to a grand juror of the town in which such 
seizure is made, or to the State's attorney of the county; and such grand juror or 
State's attorney shall attend and act in behalf of the State at the hearing against the 
liquor so seized ; and the officer making the seizure and the prosecuting officer shall 
be allowed the same fees for travel and attendance as in other cases. 

Sec. 7. The officer shall apprehend and bring forthwith before the justice or judge 
the owner and keeper and all persons having the custody of, or exercising any control 
over, the liquor seized, either as principal, clerk, servant, or agent. 

Sec. 8. If the owner or keeper of such liquor is unknown to the officer, or if no person 
is found in poss3ssion or custody of the same, the officer shall apprehend and bring 
before the justice or judge the owner or occupant of the building or apartments in 
which such liquor was found, if known to him or can by him be ascertained. 

Sec 9. If, upon hearing, it appears that such liquor was intended for sale or distri- 
bution contrary to law, such liquor, and the casks or vessels in which it is contained, 
shall be adjudged forfeited and condemned. 

Sec. 10. When liquor is adjudged forfeited and condemned under the preceding 
section, it shall be destroyed under a written order of said justice or judge and in his 
presence, or in the presence of some person designated by him for that purpose in such 
order, and the person witnessing such destruction shall join with the officer executing 
the order in certifying upon the back thereof the fact of its execution. 

Sec 11. Upon condemnation of such liquor, any and all persons apprehended 
and brought before such justice or judge under sections 7 and 8 of this act shall be 
liable to pay the costs of such proceedings, if, in the judgment of the justice or judge, 
any of them, by themselves, clerks, servants, or agents, shall have been engaged in, 
aided, assisted, or abetted the keeping of such liquor for unlawful sale or distribution, 
or have been privy thereto, or have knowingly permitted the use of any building or 
apartments by them owned or controlled for the storing or keeping of such liquor 
for such unlawful sale or distribution. 

Sec. 12. Against any and all persons by said justice or judge adjudged liable to 
pay such costs, in case such costs are not paid, the justice or judge shall issue an 
execution in favor of the State and against the body or bodies of such persons for 
such costs; upon which execution shall be certified as follows: "This execution is 
issued for the costs of the seizure and condemnation of intoxicating liquor kept in 
violation of law "; and persons committed upon such executions shall not be admitted 
to the liberties of the jail yard. 

Sec 13. If an officer has reason to believe and does believe that intoxicating liquor 
is kept or concealed in any conveyance or baggage being conveyed along any highway, 
he shall search the same with out a warrant. 

Sec 14. If an officer seizes intoxicating liquor without a warrant, he shall forth- 
with make complaint, under oath, subscribed by him, to a justice or judge of a muni- 
cipal court in whose jurisdiction such liquor was seized; and thereupon the same 
proceedings shall be had as if such liquor had been seized with a warrant. 

Sec 15. When the owner, keeper, or possessor of intoxicaring liquor seized under 
the provisions of this act appears and makes claim to the same, he shall file a written 
claim with the justice or court before whom the proceedings are pending, setting 
forth his interest in the liquor and the reasons why it should not be adjudged for- 
feited ; he shall also give security by way of recognizance to the State, with sufficient 
sureties, in such sum as the court directs, conditioned that he will prosecute his 
claim to effect and pay the costs awarded against him. 

Sec 16. No appeal shall be allowed to the claimant from the judgment of the court 
until he gives security by way of recognizance to the State, with sufficient sureties, 
in such sums as the court directs, conditioned that he will prosecute his appeal to 
cffeci and pay the costs awarded against him. 



689 March 10, 1016 

Sec. 17. If the judgment is against the claimant, the liquor and the casks or vessels 
containing the same shall be adjudged forfeited as provided in this act; and judgment 
shall be rendered against the claimant for all costs of prosecution incurred after the 
filing of his claim. 

Sec. 18. If the appellant fails to enter and prosecute his appeal, or if judgment is 
against him on appeal, the court in which such appeal is finally decided shall order the 
liquor to be disposed of as in case of liquor adjudged forfeited under an order of a 
justice or municipal judge. 

Sec. 19. If liquor seized by an officer as intoxicating is taken from his possession by 

writ of replevin, it shall not be delivered to the claimant, but shall be held by the 

• officer serving such writ until the final determination of the suit; whereupon the same 

shall be delivered to the party in whose favor judgment is rendered, or to such officer 

as has authority to hold or destroy the same under original seizure proceedings. 

Sec. 20. No proceedings on seizure of intoxicating liquor except final execution 
shall be delayed by a replevin thereof, but the cause shall proceed to final judgment 
as if replevin had not been commenced. 

Sec. 21. If proceedings for the condemnation and destruction of intoxicating liquor 
result in the prosecution and conviction of the owner or keeper thereof for keeping 
with intent to sell contrary to law, the costs in such proceedings shall be taxed against 
such owner or keeper. 

Sec 22. When a person is found in such a state of intoxication as to disturb the 
public or domestic peace and tranquillity, a sheriff, deputy sheriff, high bailiff, or 
justice of the county, or constable, grand juror, or selectman of the town in which 
such person is so found, or police officer of any city or incorporated village, shall 
apprehend such person, and may do so without a warrant, and detain him in custody, 
at the expense of the State, in any place within the county, in the discretion of such 
officer, until, in his opinion, the person so detained is capable of testifying properly 
in court; and he shall then bring him before a court having jurisdiction of the offense 
and further proceedings shall be had in accordance with law. 

Sec. 23. When any person is convicted of the crime of being found intoxicated, 
he shall be detained by the court in which he was convicted, and shall, on oath, before 
such court, at the time of such conviction or as soon thereafter as may be, disclose 
the place where and the person of whom the liquor producing such intoxication was 
obtained and the circumstances attending it; and if he does not so disclose, he shall 
be committed to the jail of the county at the expense of the State until he so discloses 
or is discharged by the court. 

Sec. 24. If such person, after taking an appeal, pays the fine imposed or fails to 
enter his appeal, the justice or judge shall issue his warrant to apprehend the body of 
such person and to bring him before such justice or judge to make disclosure as pro- 
vided in the preceding section. 

Sec. 25. If the court adjudges from the evidence that the sale or furnishing of such 
liquor was in violation of this act, such court shall forthwith issue a warrant and cause 
the person so selling or furnishing such liquor to be brought forthwith before it; and 
the grand juror of the town, or State's attorney of the county, shall appear and prose- 
cute such cause in the same manner as if he had been complainant therein, and shall 
attend at the taking of such disclosure. 

Sec 26. A person who furnishes or sells, or who exposes or keeps with intent to 
furnish or sell, intoxicating liquors shall be imprisoned not more than 12 months nor 
les3 than 3 months, or fined not more than $1,000 nor less than $300, or both. 

Sec. 27. A person who for himself, or as agent, takes or solicits orders for the sale of 
intoxicating liquors shall be imprisoned not more than six months nor less than three 
months, or fined not more than S500 nor less than $100. 

Sec 28. A person who by himself, clerk, oi agent brings into th? State, or conveys 
or transports over or along a railroad or public highway, intoxicating liquor which he 



March 10, 1916 690 

knows or has reason to believe is to be unlawfully kept, sold, or furnished shall be 
imprisoned not more than six months nor less than three months, or fined not more 
than $500 nor less than $100. 

Sec. 29. A person or corporation that sells, furnishes, or gives away candy of any 
sort or kind containing intoxicating liquors of any sort, in any quantity whatsoever or 
flavored in a manner to imitate the taste of intoxicating liquor, shall upon the first 
conviction thereof be fined $10, together with the costs of prosecution, and for each 
subsequent conviction shall be fined $25, together with the costs of prosecution. 

Sec. 30. A State's attorney or town grand juror who willfully refuses or neglects to 
investigate a complaint for a violation of this act, when accompanied by evidence in 
support thereof, shall be fined $300. 

Sec 31. A person who is found intoxicated shall, on the first conviction thereof, 
pay a fine of $5 with costs of prosecution, with an alternative sentence of imprisonment 
in the county jail for not more than 20 nor less than 10 days; and for each subsequent 
conviction he shall be fined $15 with costs of prosecution, or be imprisoned in the 
county jail for a term of 30 days, or both; provided the prosecution is commenced 
within 30 days after the offense is committed. A person who has been convicted of a 
third offense shall, for the purposes of this act, be deemed an habitual drunkard. 

Sec. 32. A person who willfully violates a provision of this act for which no penalty 
is prescribed shall be imprisoned not more than three months nor less than one month 
or fined not more than §200 nor less than $50, or both. 

Sec. 34. Outlines the form of pledge to bo signed by persons convicted of being in- 
toxicated. 

Sec. 35. No sentence of imprisonment under this act. either cumulative or on fail- 
ure to pay fine and costs, shall exceed the term of three years. 

Sec 3<i. A husband, wife, child, guardian, employer, or other person who is injured 
in person, property, or means of support by an intoxicated person, or in consequence 
of the intoxication of any person, shall have a right of action in his or her name, jointly 
or severally, against a person or persons who, by selling or furnishing intoxicating 
liquor, have caused in whole or in part such intoxication. If such intoxicating liquor 
was sold or furnished to such person in a rented building, and the owner of such build- 
ing, or his agent in charge thereof, knew or had reason to know that intoxicating liquor 
was sold or kept for sale by his tenant in such building contrary to law, said owner 
may be joined as defendant in such action, and judgment therein may be rendered 
against him. Upon the death of either party the action or right of action shall sur- 
vive to or against his executor or administrator. The party injured or his legal repre- 
sentatives may bring either a joint action against the person intoxicated and the per- 
son or persons who furnished the liquor and the owner of the building, or a separate 
action against; either or any of them. 

Sec. 37. All damages recovered by a minor in such action shall be paid over to 
such minor or his guardian on such terms as the court may order. 

Sec. 38. A judgment for the plaintiff under section 37 of this act shall be treated as 
rendered in an action founded on tort; and the court, at the time of such judgment, 
shall adjudge that the cause of action arose from the willful and malicious act of the 
defendant, and that he ought to be confined in close jail, and a certificate thereof shall 
be stated in or upon the execution. 

Sec 39. When a person is convicted of or pleads guilty to furnishing or selling 
intoxicating liquor contrary to law, the court shall forthwith give notice thereof 
to the United States collector of internal revenue for this district, if such court has 
reason to believe that such person has not paid the special tax imposed by the United 
States Government upon dealers in intoxicating liquors. 

Sec 40. The receipt for or record of the payment of the United States special 
tax as liquor seller shall be prima facie evidence that the person named therein keeps 
IVr . c ale and fells intoxicating liquors. 



691 March 10, 1918 

Sec. 41. Justices and municipal and city courts shall have concurrent jurisdiction 
with the county court of prosecutions for intoxication, and of all offenses under this 
act to which the respondent pleads guilty; but in other prosecutions under this act 
they may cause the respondent to be apprehended and committed to jail, or bound 
over with sufficient sureties, by way of recognizance, for his appearance at the next 
term of the county court within the county in which said cause is triable, to answer 
to such complaint, information, or indictment as may be brought against him, and 
from term to term thereafter. 

Sec. 42. When a respondent is bound over, as provided in the preceding section, 
the court shall, if requested by either party, order the necessary witnesses to recognize 
for their appearance before the county court, in the sum in which the respondent 
is bound over; and if a witness refuses so to recognize, he may be committed to jail 
on the warrant of the court making such order. 

Sec. 43. In prosecutions for offenses under this act, if a specification is required, 
it shall be sufficient to specify the offenses with such certainty as to time and person 
as the prosecutor is able, and the same may be amended upon trial. When the 
specifications set forth the sale or furnishing to any person or persons unknown, tho 
witnesses may be inquired of as to such transactions; and if the name of the person 
is disclosed, it may be added to the specification and upon such terms as to post- 
ponement of the trial as the court deems reasonable. 

Sec 44. Fines and costs collected under this act shall be paid to the county clerk 
by tho court before whom the trial is held, within 30 days after they are collected, 
and the county clerk shall pay the same quarterly to the State treasurer. The auditor 
of accounts shall draw his orders for the payment of costs incurred by the State under 
this act. 

Sec. 45. Form of complaint for selling or furnishing intoxicating liquor. 

Sec 46. Under the foregoing complaint each distinct act of selling or furnishing 
may be proved, and the court shall impose a fine for each offense, as provided in 
this chapter for that offense. In informations and indictments for offenses under 
this chapter the description of the offense may be substantially in the same form 
so far as the case will admit. 

Sec 47. Form of warrant. 

Sec 48. Form of warrant for rearrest of persons convicted of being intoxicated. 

Sec. 56. Chapter 219 of the Public Statutes and all amendments thereof and all 
acts and parts of acts inconsistent with this act are hereby repealed, except so far 
as the same relate to pending cases and to offenses committed prior to the date on 
which this act takes effect and to prosecutions for such offenses, provided said prose- 
cutions are commenced within 30 days from the date on which this act takes effect. 

Sec 57. This act shall take effect on the 1st day of May, A. D. 1916, provided that 
a majority of the ballots to be cast as hereinafter provided shall be "Yes, " and provided 
that if a majority of the ballots to be cast as hereinafter provided shall be "No," 
then this act shall take effect on the 1st day of May, A. D. 1927, but as to section 
59, 60, 61, 62, and 63 this act shall take effect from its passage. 

Sec. 58. In each town and city the warning for the annual meeting in 1916 shall 
contain an article in substance as follows: "Shall an act of the general assembly of 
1915 entitled 'An act to prohibit the sale of intoxicating liquors' become a law May 
1, A. D. 1916?" 

The secretary of state shall, at least 10 days prior to said annual meeting in 1916, 
furnish the town clerk of each town and city with a sufficient number of ballots to 
be used in voting upon the question of the acceptance of the provisions of this act. 
Said secretary shall also, when furnishing ballots, furnish each town clerk with a 
sufficient number of sample ballots printed on differed colored paper, which shall 
be posted in three or more public places in such town, at least six days prior to said 

47 



March 10, 1916 692 

annual meeting. Said secretary shall also cause to be printed upon the sample 
ballots herein provided for section 57 of this act. 

Sec. 59. The ballot clerks, board of civil authority, and town and city clerks shall 
perform the same duties in respect to the ballots to be used under this act as are 
imposed upan said officials by chapters 11 and 12 of the Public Statutes, except as 
otherwise provided in this act, and all regulations provided by law for conducting 
general elections shall be applicable to the votes provided for in this act. 

Sec. 09. A epacial box shall be provided for the reception of the ballots provided for 
in this act, which shall be opened at the hour the meeting is called, and shall remain 
open until the close of the meeting not earlier than 3 o'clock on the afternoon. 

Sec 61. The town clerks of the several towns shall, within 24 hours from the adjourn- 
ment of said annual meeting in 1916, report to the secretary of state upon blanks 
furnished by said secretary of state the result of the vote upon the question of the 
acceptance of the provisions of this act. On the 15th day of March, A. D. 1916, said 
secretary of state shall canvass the returns so made to him, and shall, within two days 
thereafter issue his proclamation certifying the result of such vote and declaring the 
time when the provisions of this act shall take effect. 

Sec. 62. In case a majority of the ballots cast as hereinbefore provided for shall be 
"Yes," then the votes in the several towns at the annual meetings in 1916 on the 
questions, "Shall license be granted for the sale of intoxicating liquor in this town?" 
and "Shall licenses of the fifth class be granted in this town?" shall be void, and the 
term of office of license commissioners then in office shall extend to and terminate on 
the 1st of May, A. D. 1916. 

(Laws 1915, No. 172.) 

Section 1. Section 57 of an act of the general assembly of 1915, entitled "An act to 
prohibit the sale of intoxicating liquors," approved March 12, 1915, is hereby amended 
so as to read as follows: 

"Sec 57 (as amended). This act shall take effect on the 1st day of May, A. D. 1916, 
provided that a majority of the ballots to be cast as hereinafter provided shall be 
'Yes,' and provided that if a majority of the ballots to be cast as hereinafter provided 
shall be 'No,' then this act shall take effect on the 1st day of May, A. D. 1927, but as 
to sections 58, 59, 60, 61, and 62, this act shall take effect from its passage." 

PRACTICE OF PHARMACY. 
(Laws 1915, No. 190.) 

Section 1. Section 5405 of the Public Statutes is hereby amended so as to read as 
follows: 

"Sec. 5405 (as amended). A person not licensed as a pharmacist shall not practice 

pharmacy, display a sign, emblem, or device indicating that his place of business is 

used as a pharmacy, drug or chemical store, apothecary shep, or place for the retailing, 

compounding, or dispensing of drugs, chemicals, or poisons, or for the compounding 

or dispensing of physicians' prescriptions, nor expose for sale at retail drugs, chemicals, 

or poisons, unless such place of business is conducted, managed, or controlled by a duly 

licensed pharmacist." 

Virginia. 

SALE AND USE OP COCAINE AND NARCOTICS. 
(Norfolk, Va., Ord., Feb. 15, 1915.) 

(1) It shall be unlawful for any person, except a registered pharmacist, to retail, 
cell, or give away any cocaine, alpha or beta eucaine, opium, laudanum, morphine, 
or heroin, or any salt or any compound containing any of the foregoing substances, 



693 March 10, 1916 

and then only upon the written prescription of a duly registered physician, licensed 
veterinarian, or licensed dentist, except as hereinafter provided; and it shall be 
unlawful for any physician, veterinarian, or dentist to write, issue, deliver, or dictate, 
either directly or indirectly, any prescription or sell or give away any of the habit- 
forming drugs enumerated above to or for any habitual user: Provided, That nothing 
in this act shall prohibit any duly registered licensed physician from personally 
administering any of the above enumerated drugs or issuing a prescription directly 
to his patient for not more than 16 grains of opium, 8 grains morphine, 8 grains heroin, 
8 grains cocaine, 8 grains alpha eucaine, 8 grains beta eucaine, 1 ounce laudanum 
within any given 48 hours: And -provided also, That this act shall not prohibit any 
bona tide sanitarium, hospital, or institution for the treatment of the sick from ad- 
ministering the drugs above enumerated in such quantities as may be necessary in 
effecting a cure of patients addicted to their use. With every prescription issued 
in accordance with this ordinance shall be issued two copies thereof, one of which 
shall be attached to the original prescription delivered to the patient, and the other 
of which shall be filed by the person issuing the same with the department of health 
within 24 hours after its issuance. 

Said prescription shall contain the name and address of the person for whom the 
same is prescribed and the date on which the same shall have been issued; and no 
druggist shall fill such a prescription unless there is delivered to him at the time 
said prescription is presented to him to be filled a copy of said prescription, and 
said druggist shall within 24 hours after filling such prescription file with the depart- 
ment of health the said copy of the said prescription, and shall note on said copy 
the date of fillin? the same, and shall permanently retain on his file the original 
prescription. Said prescription shall be filled but once, and no copy of it shall be 
taken by any person, except a copy may be taken by the department of health or 
their agents, and the original shall at all times be open to the inspection of the pre- 
scriber and officers of the law; except, however, that such cocaine, alpha or beta 
eucaine, opium, laudanum, morphine, heroin may be lawfully sold at wholesale 
by a wholesale jobber or manufacturer upon the written order of a licensed pharma- 
cist, duly registered practicing physician, licensed veterinarian, or licensed dentist: 
Provided also, That nothing in this ordinance shall be construed to prevent the legiti- 
mate administering of said drugs, their salts, compounds, and derivatives, by a duly 
registered practicing physician, duly licensed veterinarian, or duly licensed dentist 
to patients suffering from diseases other than the drug habit or physical injuries 
in such quantities as have already been sot forth in this ordinance. 

(2) It shall be unlawful for any person other than a duly licensed physician, dentist, 
or veterinarian or trained nurse to have in his or her possession an instrument com- 
monly known as a hypodermic syringe or hypodermic needle, unless the same shall 
have been regularly prescribed or ordered by a duly licensed physician, dentist, 
or veterinarian: Provided, however, That this shall not apply to licensed dealers in 
drugs, drug supplies, or surgical instruments. It shall be unlawful for any person 
to sell, give away, or furnish to any person other than a duly licensed physician, 
dentist, or veterinarian an instrument commonly known as a hypodermic syringe or 
hypodermic needle without the written order of a duly licensed physician, dentist, 
or veterinarian. Every person who disposes of or selk at retail or furnishes or give3 
away to any person either of the above instruments upon the written order of a duly 
licensed physician, dentist, or veterinarian shall before delivering the same enter 
into a book kept for that purpose the date of the sab, the name and address of the pur- 
chaser, and a description of the instrument sold, disposed of, furnished, or givea 
away, and shall within 24 hours thereafter file with the department of health, in writ- 
ing, a report sho ving the date of the sale, the name and address of the purchaser, 
a description of the instrument sold, disposed of, furnished, or given away, and tho 



March 10, 1916 694 

name and address of the physician, dentist, or veterinarian on whose written order the 
same was so sold, disposed of, furnished, or given away. 

(3) Violation of any provision of this ordinance Bhall be punishable by a fine of 
not more than $500 or imprisonment in jail for not more than six months, or both. 

Washington. 

SALE AND USE OF POISONS. 
(Laws 1915, chap. 166.) 

Sec. 7. It shall be unlawful for any person to offer for sale in the State of Washing- 
ton any horticultural insecticide or fungicide which is adulterated or misbranded 
within the meaning of this act. The term "insecticide" as used in this act shall 
include any substance or mixture of substances intended to be used for preventing, 
destroying, repelling, or mitigating any insects which may infest vegetation. The 
term "Paris green" as used in this act shall include the product sold in commerce 
as Paris green and chemically known as the aceto-arsenite of copper. The term 
"lead arsenate" as used in this act shall include the product or products sold in com- 
merce as lead arsenate and consisting chemically of products derived from arsenic 
acid (fl 3 As0 4 ) by replacing one or more hydrogen atoms by lead. That the term 
"fungicide" as used in this act shall include any substance or mixture of substances 
intended to be used for preventing, destroying, repelling, or mitigating any and all 
fungi that may infest vegetation or be present in any environment whatsoever. 

Sec. 8. That for the purpose of this act an article shall be deemed to bo adulterated — 

In the case of Paris green: First, if it does not contain at least 50 per cent of arsenious 
oxide; second, if it contains arsenic in water-soluble form equivalent to more than 
3 J per cent of arsenious oxide; third, if any substance has been mixed and packed 
with it so as to reduce or lower or injuriously affect its quality or strength. 

In the case of lead arsenate: First, if it contains more than 50 per cent of water; 
second, if it contains total arsenic equivalent to less than 12 $ per cent of arsenic 
oxid (As 2 5 ); third, if it contains arsenic in water-soluble form equivalent to more 
than seventy-five one-hundredths per cent of arsenic oxid (As 2 5 ); fourth, if any 
substances have been mixed and packed with it so as to reduce, lower, or injuriously 
affect its quality or strength: Provided, however, That extra water may be added to 
lead arsenate (as described in this paragraph) if the resulting mixture is labeled lead 
arsenate and water, the percentage of extra water being plainly and correctly stated 
on the label. 

In the case of insecticides or fungicides, other than Paris green and lead arsenate, 
First, if its strength or purity fall below the professed standard or quality under 
which it is sold; second, if any substance has been substituted wholly or in part for 
the article; third, if any valuable constituent of the article has been wholly or in 
part abstracted; fourth, if it is intended for use on vegetation and shall contain any 
substance or substances which, although preventing, destroying, repelling, or miti- 
gating insects, shall be injurious to such vegetation when used. 

That the term "misbranded" as used herein shall apply to all insecticides, Paris 
green, lead arsenates, or fungicides, or articles which enter into the composition of 
insecticides, or fungicides, the package or label of which shall bear any statement, 
design, or device regarding such article or the ingredients or substances contained 
therein which shall be false or misleading in any particular, and to all insecticides, 
Paris greens, lead arsenates, or fungicides which are falsely branded as to the State, 
Territory, or country in which they are manufactured or produced. 

That for the purpose of this act an article shall be deemed to be misbranded — 

In the case of insecticides, Paris greens, lead arsenates, and fungicides: First, if it 
be an imitation or offered for sale under the name of another article; second, if it be 



695 March 10, 1916 

labeled or branded so as to deceive or mislead the purchaser, or if the contents of the 
package as originally put up shall have been removed in whole or in part and other 
contents shall have been placed in such package; third, if in package form, and the 
contents are stated in terms of weight or measure, they are not plainly and correctly 
stated on the outside of the package. . . . 

(Laws 1915, chap. 31.) 

Sec 82. Polluting -waters prohibited. — It shall be unlawful to cast or pass, or to suffer 
or permit to bo cast or passed, into any waters of this State, either fre3h or salt, any 
sawdust, planer shavings, wood pulp, or other waste, lime, gas, coculus indicus, chemi- 
cal substances, or any refuse or waste material substance or matter at any time whatso- 
ever deleterious to fish or shellfish. 

SALE AND USE OP INTOXICATING LIQUORS. 
(Laws 1915, chap. 2.) 

Section 1. This entire act shall be deemed an exercise of the police power of the 
State, for the protection of the economic welfare, health, peace, and morals of the 
people of the State, and all of its provisions shall be liberally construed for the accom- 
plishment of that purpose. 

Sec. 2. The phrase "intoxicating liquor," wherever used in this act, shall be held 
and construed to include whisky, brandy, gin, rum, wine, ale, beer, and any spirituous 
vinous, fermented, or malt liquor or liquid containing intoxicating properties which 
is capable of being used as a beverage, whether medicated or not, and all liquids, 
whether proprietary, patented, or not, which contain any alcohol, which are capable 
of being used as a beverage. 

Sec. 3. Defines the word "person." 

Sec. 4. Makes it unlawful for any person to sell, manufacture, or give away any 
intoxicating liquor. 

Sec 5. Makes it unlawful to use buildings for the manufacture, sale, or giving 
away of intoxicating liquors. 

Sec 6. Prohibits the soliciting of orders or advertising of intoxicating liquors. 

Sec 7. Nothing in this act shall be construed to prohibit a registered druggist or 
pharmacist from selling intoxicating liquors for medicinal purposes, upon the pre- 
scription of a licensed physician, as herein provided, or for sacramental purposes, 
upon the order of a clergyman, as herein provided, or from selling alcohol for mechan- 
ical or chemical purposes only; but it shall be unlawful for such druggist or pharmacist 
to permit any such liquor to be drunk upon the premises where sold. Every druggist 
or pharmacist selling intoxicating liquor or alcohol for the purposes provided shall 
keep a true and exact record in a book provided by him for that purpose, in which 
shall be entered at the time of every sale of intoxicating liquor or alcohol made by 
him or in or about his place of business, the date of the sale, the name of the purchaser, 
his place of residence, stating the street and house number (if there be such), tho 
kind, quantity, and price of such liquor or alcohol, and the purpose for which it is sold, 
and, when the sale is for medicinal or sacramental purposes, the name of the physician 
issuing the prescription or of the clergyman giving the order therefor, and, when the 
sale is of alcohol for mechanical or chemical purposes, the purchaser shall be required 
to sign the record of the sale in the book. Whenever any druggist or pharmacist filla 
a prescription for intoxicating liquor, he shall cancel the same by writing across the 
face thereof, in ink, the word "Canceled," with the date on which is was presented 
and filled, and shall keep the same on file, separate from other prescriptions, and no 
such prescription shall be filled again. Such book and all prescriptions for intoxi- 
cating liquor filled shall be open to inspection by any prosecuting attorney or city 
attorney, judge, or justice of the peace, sheriff, constable, marshal, or other polico 
officer, or member of the city or town council. It shall be unlawful for any druggist 



March 10, 1916 696 

or pharmacist to fail or neglect to keep such record or to destroy or in any way alter 
any such record or entry thereon or any prescription filled, or to permit or procure 
the same to be destroyed or altered, or to refuse inspection thereof to any person entitled 
to such inspection, or to fail or neglect to cancel any such prescription, or to refill any 
prescription or to sell intoxicating liquor far medicinal purposes except upon a written 
prescription of a licensed physician, or for sacramental purposes without an order 
signed by a clergyman, or to sell any alcohol for mechanical or chemical purposes with- 
out obtaining the signature of the purchaser: Provided, That nothing herein contained 
shall be construed to prohibit the sale by a druggist or pharmacist of such intoxicating 
liquor as may be needed by or for a sick person in case of extreme illness where delay 
may be dangerous to the patient. A druggist or pharmacist who has been convicted of 
selling intoxicating liquor or of any other act in violation of this section shall not, 
within two years thereafter, either personally or by agent, sell intoxicating liquor for 
any purpose whatsoever; and upon a second conviction of a violation of the provisions 
of this section, such druggist or pharmacist shall forfeit his right to practice pharmacy, 
and the justice of the peace or superior judge before whom such druggist or pharma- 
cist is convicted of a second violation of this section shall so adjudge, and shall send a 
copy of such judgment to the board of pharmacy, who upon receipt thereof shall 
forthwith cancel the license of such druggist or pharmacist, and no other license shall 
be issued by the board of pharmacy to such druggist or pharmacist within two years 
from the date of such cancellation. 

Sec. 8. It shall be unlawful for any licensed physician to issue a prescription for 
intoxicating liquor except in writing or in any case, unless he has good reason to 
believp that the person for whom it is issued is actually sick and that the liquor is 
required as medicine. Every prescription for intoxicating liquor shall contain the 
name and address of the physician, the name and quantity of liquor prescribed, the 
name of the parson for whom prescribed, the date on which the prescription is written, 
and directions for the use of the liquor so prescribed. Upon the conviction a second 
time of any licensed physician of a violation of the provisions of this section, it shall 
be unlawful for such physician thereafter to write any prescription for the furnishing, 
delivery, or sale of intoxicating liquor, and it shall be unlawful for any druggist or 
pharmacist to knowingly fill any prescription written or signed by any physician 
who has been convicted the second time of a violation of the provisions of this section. 

Sec. 10. Makes it unlawful for any parson to maintain any clubhouse in which 
intoxicating liquor is sold. 

Sec. 11. Provides for the search and seizure of intoxicating liquor. 

Sec. 12. Provides for hearings, and places the burden of proof on the claimant; 
provides also that forfeited articles other than intoxicating liquor are to be sold, the 
proceeds to go to the common-school fund. 

Sec 13. Provides that no parson shall be excused for testifying on the ground that 
his testimony may incriminate him. 

Sec. 14. Provides that any citizen or organization within the State may employ 
an attorney to assist tho prosecuting attorney. 

Sec 15. Provides for parmits for shipments of liquor, gives the form of permits, 
and requires that said parmits shall be affixed to packages. 

Sec 1G. Provides that no parson shall have more than one permit in 20 days. 

Sec. 17. Any registered druggist or pharmacist actually engaged in business within 
the State desiring to transport or ship any intoxicating liquor within this State shall 
make and file with the county auditor a statement in writing under oath, which state- 
ment shall contain the name of the said druggist or pharmacist, the name under which 
lie transacts business, or if made by the agent of a corporation or a copartnership shall 
state the name of such corporation or copartnership and the official position or con- 
nection of the parson making said statement with said firm or corporation, the location 
of 1he place of business of said person, firm, or corporation; that he, they, or it is 
regularly engaged in business as a druggist or pharmacist, at such point, and that it is 



697 March 10, 1910 

necessary from time to time to make shipments of intoxicating liquor, and that such 
liquor is not to be sold in violation of the laws of the State, but is obtained for use for 
purposes permitted by this law only; that the applicant for such permit or any of the 
members of the said partnership, as a partnership, or of the officers, agents, or servants 
in the employ of said corporation and in charge of its business at such location, have 
not been theretofore convicted of any violation of the laws relating to intoxicating 
liquor of the State of Washington. It shall be the duty of the county auditor to file 
said application, when properly sworn to, and give the same a serial number, and 
thereafter said applicant shall from time to time, as he, they, or it desire to .make ship- 
ments of intoxicating liquor for lawful purposes, file with said county auditor a written 
request for permits, giving the serial number of said application on file. Such requests 
need not be sworn to, but shall be signed and shall state the place from which such 
shipment is to bo made, and to whom, and the name and quantity of intoxicating 
liquor to be shipped. Upon receipt of such written request from any druggist or 
pharmacist in good standing, as hereinafter specified, said county auditor shall issue 
and deliver to said druggist or pharmacist a permit in substantially the following form: 

PERMIT TO DRUGGIST OR PHARMACIST TO TRANSPORT INTOXICATING LIQUOR. 

State op Washington, County of , ss: 

residing at , a druggist or pharmacist in good standing, is hereby permitted to ship or 

transport from , in the State of Washington, to , in the ounty of , State of Washington, 

intoxicating li juor not exceeding in quantity (here insert kind and quantity to be shipped). This 

permit can only be used for one shipment and shall be void after 30 days from the date of issue. 

Dated this day of , 19 . 

Count;/ Auditor. 

Such permit shall be printed upon ordinary white paper, and the county auditor 
shall keep the applications and requests therefor on file in his office as a part of the 
records of his office, and as each permit is issued shall indorse on such application 
"permit issued," with the date of issue. 

Sec. 18. Makes it unlawful for any express company, railroad company, or trans- 
portation company to transport goods without a permit. 

Sec 19. No county auditor shall issue a permit to any person or druggist or phar- 
macist who has been convicted of the violation of any of the liquor laws of the State, 
or to any person other than a druggist or a pharmacist, who is the holder of an 
internal-revenue special- tax stamp or receipt, issued by the United States Govern- 
ment, permitting or relating to the sale of intoxicating liquor, or to any person not 
a registered druggist or pharmacist who has, within 2!) days immediately preceding, 
obtained a permit for the shipment of intoxicating liquor. 

Sec 20. It shall be unlawful for any person to ship, transport, or consign any 
intoxicating liquor, or for any express company, railroad company, transportation 
company, or any pere n engaged in the business of transporting goods, wares, and 
merchandise, to knowingly transport or convey any intoxicating liquor within thia 
State, or for any person to knowingly receive from any express, railroad company, 
transportation company, or any person engaged in the business of transporting goods, 
wares, and merchandise any intoxicating liqjor unless the package or parcel be 
clearly and plainly marked in large letters: "This package contains intoxicating 
liquor." 

Sec. 21. It shall be unlawful for any person to make a false statement to a physician, 
druggist, or pharmacist for the purpose of obtaining intoxicating liquor or alcohol, 
or to the county auditor for the purpose of obtaining a permit for the shipment of 
intoxicating liquor, or to any railroad, express, or transportation company or any 
person engaged in the business of transporting goods, wares, and merchandise for 
the purpose of obtaining the shipment, transportation, or delivery of any intoxicat- 
ing liquor. 



March 10, 1916 698 

Sec. 22. It shall be unlawful for any person to have in his possession more than 
one-half gallon or 2 quarts of intoxicating liquor other than beer, or more than 12 
quarts or 24 pints of beer: Provided, however, That this section shall not apply to 
registered pharmacists or to persons keeping alcohol to be used for mechanical or 
chemical purposes only. 

Sec. 23. In any prosecution for the violation of any provisions of this act it shall 
be competent to prove tnat any person had in his possession more than 2 quarts of 
intoxicating liquor other than beer or more than 12 quarts of beer, and such possession 
and the proof thereof shall be prima facie evidence that said liquor was so held and 
kept for the purposes of unlawful sale or disposition. 

Sec. 21. Provides that the provisions of act shall not apply to unbroken packages 
of intoxicating liquor. 

Sec 25. The provisions of this act shall not be construed to prohibit the manufac- 
ture of vinegar, sweet cider, or unfermented fruit juice for domestic consumption or 
for sale, nor to prohibit the manufacture and sale of denatured alcohol. 

Sec 20. If any provision or section of this act shall be held void or unconstitu- 
tional, all other provisions and all other sections of the act which are not expressly 
held to be void or unconstitutional shall continue in full force and effect. 

Sec 27. Every justice of the peace or superior judge shall recognize and act upon 
any sworn complaint of a violation of this act filed by any citizen of the State in 
the same manner and to the same extent as though the same were filed by a prose- 
cuting officer. 

Sec. 23. Yv'ithin 10 days after the date when this act has become operative every 
person except registered druggists and pharmacists shall remove or cause to be re- 
moved all intoxicating liquor in his possession from the State, and failure so to do 
slwll be prima facie evidence that such liquor is kept therein for the purpose of being 
sold, bartered, exchanged, given away, or otherwise disposed of in violation of the 
provisions of this act: Provided, however, That this section shall not apply to alcohol 
kept for chemical or manufacturing purposes, or to one-half gallon of intoxicating 
liquor other than beer, or 12 quarts or 24 pints of beer held by an individual: And 
provided further, That for said 10-day period of time it shall not be necessary to obtain 
any permit or permits for the shipment of any such intoxicating liquor lawfully held 
within the St '.te at the date this act goes into effect to points outside of the State. 

Sec. 29. It shall be unlawful for any person other than a common carrier to trans- 
port, carry, or bring into this State any intoxicating liquor in excess of one-half 
gallon of liquor other than beer, or 12 quarts or 24 pints of beer, within any 20-day 
period. 

Sec 30. Prescribes the duty of the attorney general. 

Sec 31. Provides for penalties in cases not specified. 

Sec. 32. Provides penalty for second conviction and also all subsequent convictions. 

Sec 33. This act shall take effect and be in full force and effect from and after the 

1st day of January, 1916. 

(Laws 1915, chap. 165.) 

Sec 2. That section 2527 of Remington and Ballinger's Annotated Codes and 
Statutes of Washington be amended to read as follows: 

"Sec 2527 (as amended). Intoxication of employees. — Every person who, being 
employed upon any railway as engineer, motorman, gripman, conductor, switch 
tender, fireman, bridge tender, flagman, or signalman, or having charge of stations, 
starting, regulating, or running trains upon a railway, or being employed as captain, 
engineer, or other officer of a vessel propelled by steam, or being the driver of any 
animal or vehicle upon any public highway, street, or other public place, shall be 
intoxicated while engaged in the discharge of any such duties shall be guilty of a 
gross misdemeanor. " 



699 March 10, 1918 

West Virginia. 

SALE AND USE OP INTOXICATING LIQUOBS. 
(Laws 1915, chap. 7.) 

An act to amend and reenact section 7 of chapter 13, acts of the legislature of 1913, 
relating to prohibiting the manufacture, sale and keeping for sale of intoxicating 
liquors and the enforcement of the amendment of section 46 of article 6 of the State 
constitution ratified on the 5th day of November, 1912, and to further amend said 
chapter 13 of the acts of the legislature of 1913 by enacting as additional thereto seven 
sections, to be numbered sections 27 to 33, inclusive, as parts thereof. 

Sec. 7 (as amended). It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or have, for personal 
use or otherwise, or to use, or permit another to have, keep, or use, intoxicating 
liquors at any restaurant, store, office building, club, place where soft drinks are 
6old (except a drug store may have and sell alcohol and wine as provided by sections 
4 and 24), fruit stand, news stand, room, or place where bowling alleys, billiard or 
pool tables are maintained, livery stable, boathouse, public building, park, road, 
street, or alley. It shall also be unlawful for any person to give or furnish to another 
intoxicating liquors, except as otherwise hereinafter provided in this section. Any 
one violating this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction 
thereof shall be fined not less than $100 nor more than $500. and be imprisoned in 
the county jail not less than 2 nor more than 6 months: Provided, however. That nothing 
contained in this section shall prevent one, in his home, from having and there giving 
to another intoxicating liquors when such having or giving is in no way a shift, scheme, 
or devise to evade the provisions of this act; but the word ''home " as used herein shall 
not be construed to be one's club, place of common resort, or room of a transient 
guest in a hotel or boarding house: And provided further, That no common carrier, for 
hire, nor other person, for hire or without hire, shall bring or carry into this State, 
or carry from one place to another within the State, intoxicating liquors for another, 
even when intended for personal use; except a common carrier may, for hire, carry 
pure grain alcohol and wine, and such preparations as may be sold by druggists for the 
special purposes and in the manner as set forth in sections 4 and 24: And provided 
further, however, That in case of search and seizure the finding of any liquors shall be 
prima facie evidence that the same are being kept and stored for unlawful purposes. 

Sec. 28. It shall be unlawful for any person to give, under the proviso in section 7, 
or otherwise, intoxicating liquors to any minor, person of intemperate habits, or 
one who is addicted to the use of any narcotic drug. If any person shall violate the 
provisions of this section he shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction 
shall be fined not less than $100 nor more than $500 and imprisoned in the county jail 
not more than six months. 

(Laws 1915, chap. 25.) 

An act to amend and reenact section 19 of chapter 13, acts of 1913, relating to pro- 
hibiting the manufacture, sale, and keeping for sale of intoxicating liquors. 

Sec. 19 (as amended). All express companies, railroad companies, and transporta- 
tion companies within this State are hereby required to keep books in which shall be 
entered immediately upon receipt thereof the name of every person to whom liquors 
are shipped; the amount and kind received; the date when delivered, and by whom 
and to whom delivered; after which record shall be a blank space in which the con- 
signee shall be required to sign his name in person to such record, which book shall 
be open to the inspection of any State, county, or municipal officer of this State at 
any time during business hours of the company; except that in the absence or sick- 
ness of a duly licensed druggist, having authority to sell pure grain alcohol and wine 
for the purposes prescribed by law, a registered pharmacist, in the employ of such 



March 10, 1016 700 

druggist, duly designated by such druggist, in writing personally signed by him, to 
the agent of the transportation company, may sign such druggist's name to the record 
of shipments of alcohol for medicinal, pharmaceutical, scientific, and mechanical 
purposes, or wine for sacramental purposes by religious bodies, such registered phar- 
macist being required to write immediately beneath such druggist's name his own 
name and his connection with such druggist. Such books shall constitute prima 
facie evidence of the facts therein stated and be admissible as evidence in any court 
in this State having jurisdiction, or in any manner empowered with the enforcement 
of the provisions of this act. Any employee or agent of any express, railroad com- 
pany, or transportation company knowingly failing or refusing to comply with the 
provisions of this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and punished by a fine of 
not less than $50 nor more than $100, and may be imprisoned in the county jail not 
less than 30 days nor more than 6 months: Provided, hoivever, That nothing herein 
contained shall permit or be construed as permitting or authorizing any common 
carrier or transportation company to bring or carry into this State, or carry from one 
place to another within this State, intoxicating liquors for another, even when in- 
tended for personal use, other than pure grain alcohol and wino and such preparations 
for druggists as may be sold by them for the special purposes and in the manner set 
forth in sections 4 and 24. 
All acts or parts of acts inconsistent herewith are hereby repealed. 

(Laws 1915, extraordinary session, chap. 7.) 

An act to amend chapter 13, acts of the legislature of 1913, as amended by chapter 
7, acts of the legislature of 1915, regular session, relating to prohibiting the manu- 
facture, sale, and keeping of intoxicating liquors, and the enforcement of the amend- 
ment of section 46, article 6, of the State constitution, ratified on the 5th day of Novem- 
ber, 1912, by enacting one additional section thereto, to be numbered section 34, and 
to be part of said act. 

Sec. 34. It shall be unlawful for any person in this State to receive, directly or 
indirectly, intoxicating liquors from a common or other carrier. It shall also be un- 
lawful for any person in this State to possess intoxicating liquors received directly or 
indirectly from a common or other carrier in this State. This section shall apply to 
such liquors intended for personal use, as well as otherwise, and to interstate as well 
as intrastate shipments or carriage. Any person violating this section shall be guilty 
of a misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be fined not less than $100 nor more than 
$200, and in addition thereto may be imprisoned not more than three months: Pro- 
vided, however, That druggists may receive and possess pure grain alcohol, wine, and 
such preparations as may be sold by druggists for the special purpose and in the man- 
ner as set forth in sections 4 and 24. 

Wisconsin. 

SALE AND USE OP INTOXICATING LIQUORS. 

(Laws 1915, chap. 228.) 

An act to amend section 1557n of the statutes prohibiting persons to whom the sale 
of intoxicating liquors is forbidden from entering saloons and providing a penalty. 

(Laws 1915, chap. 317.) 

An act to amend sections 1636-54 of the statutes relating to penalties for the opera- 
tion of automobiles and other similar motor vehicles by intoxicated persons. 

Section 1. Sections 1636-54 of the statutes are amended to read: "* * * Any 
person who shall operate, ride, or drive any automol ile, motor cycle, or other similar 
motor vehicle upon or along any public highway of this State while intoxicated shall 



701 March 10, 101C 

be punished by a fine of not more than $100 or by imprisonment in the county jail 
for not less than five days nor more than three months, or by both such fine and 
imprisonment.". 

Wyoming. 

SALE AND TJSE OF COCAINE AND NARCOTICS. 
(Laws 1915, chap. 106.) 

Sec 2907 (as amended). Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful for 
any person, whether acting for himself or as agent, to possess or sell or otherwise dis- 
pose of cocaine, eucaine, beta eucaine, alpha eucaine, morphine, heroin, chloral, 
chloral hydrate, Indian hemp, opium, or any salt, compound, or derivative thereof, 
except upon the prescription of a licensed practicing physician registered in this 
State. No person filling the prescription shall refill the same nor give any copy 
thereof to the party presenting such prescription. The said prescription shall be 
kept on file and open to inspection by the State board of pharmacy commission, city 
or county authorities, or of the State board of medical examiners, at any time: Pro- 
vided, That the above provisions shall not apply to sales at wholesale by jobbers, 
wholesalers, and manufacturers to retail druggists, nor to sales at retail by druggists 
to regular licensed practicing physicians registered in this State, or to dentists or 
veterinary surgeons registered in this State, nor to sales to State, county, or private 
hospitals: And provided further, That the above provisions shall not apply to such 
preparations as are recognized by the United States Pharmacopoeia or National 
Formulary or pharmaceutical preparations to be used in the filling of prescriptions 
written by a regular practicing physician in this State. Any person found guilty of 
any violation of the provisions of this section shall be deemed guilty of a felony and 
shall be fined not less than $500 nor more than $1,000, or imprisoned in the State 
penitentiary for a term of not less than one year nor more than three years, or be pun- 
ished by both such fine and imprisonment in the discretion of the court. 

Sec 2900 (as amended). No practitioner of medicine, druggist, or veterinary medi- 
cine shall furnish to or prescribe for the use of any habitual user of the same any cocaine, 
eucaine, beta eucaine, alpha eucaine, morphine, chloral, chloral hydrates, Indian 
hemp, opium, or any salt or compound of any of the foregoing substances or prepara- 
tion containing any of the foregoing substances, to any person not under his treatment 
in the regular practice of his profession, and no practitioner of veterinary medicine 
shall administer any of the foregoing substances to any human being: Provided, 
however, That the provisions of this section shall not be so construed as to prevent any 
lawfully authorized practitioner of medicine from prescribing or administering, in good 
faith, cocaine not exceeding 2 grains to any one person within the period of 24 con- 
secutive hours; morphine not exceeding 2 grains within the period of 24 consecutive 
hours; codeine, Indian hemp, eucaine, alpha eucaine, beta eucaine, opium, or any of 
its derivatives, not to exceed 4 grains within any consecutive period of 24 hours; chloral 
not to exceed 240 grains within any consecutive period of 24 hours: Provided, That the 
provisions of this act shall not be so construed as to prevent the use of the foregoing 
substances in hospitals in any quantity deemed necessary by the attending physicians 
when such administration is not for the purpose of evading the provisions of this act. 
When any physician shall administer or prescribe in excess of the dosage of drugs men- 
tioned in this section within any 24 hours, he shill within five days make a report of 
such action to the secretary of the State board of health stating fully name of patient 
and conditions under which drugs were administered or prescribed. It shall be the 
duty of the State pharmacy commission to enforce thess sections. Any person found 
guilty of any violation of the provisions of this section shall be deemed guilty of a 
felony and shall be fined not less than $500 nor more than $1,000, or imprisoned in the 
State penitentiary for a term of not less than one year nor more than thren years, or be 
punished by both such fine and imprisonment in the discretion of the court. 



March 10, 1916 702 

DRUGS TO BE ANNOUNCED ON LABEL. 
(Laws 1915, chap. 71.) 

Sec. 9 (as amended). That the term "misbranded," as used herein, shall apply to 
all drugs or articles of food, or articles which enter into the composition of food, the 
package or label of which shall bear any statement, design, or device, regarding such 
article or the ingredients or substances contained therein which shall be false or mis- 
leading in any particular, and to any food or drug product which is falsely branded as to 
the State, Territory, or country in whu h it is manufactured or produced. 

That for the purpose of this act an article shall also bo deemed to bo misbranded — 

In case of drugs: 

First. If it be an imitation of or offered for sale under the name of another article. 

Second. If the contents of the package as originally put up shall have been removed, 
in whole or in part, and other contents shall have been placed in said package, or if 
the package fail to bear a statement on the label of the quantity or proportion of any 
alcohol, morphine, opium, cocaine, heroin, alpha or beta euc aine, chloroform, cannabis 
indica, chloral hydrate, or acetanilide, or any derivative or preparation of any such 
substances contained therein. * * * 

POISONS IN ARTICLES OP COMMERCE. 
(Laws 1915, chap. 79.) 

Ad act to provide for the condemnation and confiscation of misbranded or adulterated 
foods. 

Sec. 241 (as amended). Any article of food, drink, medicine, drug, or liquor that 
is adulterated or misbranded within the meaning of the act prohibiting the manu- 
facture and sale of adulterated, misbranded, poisonous, or deleterious foods, drugs, 
medicines, and liquors, approved March 2, 1911, or any amendment thereof, that is 
made, labeled, or branded contrary to the provisions ol the said act, or that does not 
conform to the definition or analytical requirements provided in the said act, and is 
beiDg sold or offered tor sale or exposed for sale within the State of Wyoming shall be 
liable to be proceeded against before any justice of the peace within whose jurisdiction 
the same may be found and seized for condemnation and confiscation, and authority 
and jurisdiction are hereby vested in the several justices of the peace to issue the 
wan-ant and to hear and determine the proceedings herein provided for. Such pro- 
ceedings shall be by complaint, verified by affidavit, and in the name of the State of 
Wyoming against the article or articles proceeded against, particularly describing the 
same, the place where they are located, the name of the person, firm, or corporation in 
whose possession they are found, and wherein they violate the provisions of this act. 
Thereupon said justice of the peace shall issue a warrant, returnable not less than 3 
or more than 10 days after its date, directed to the sheriff or any constable of the county, 
commanding such officer to seize and take into his possession the article or articles 
described in the complaint and bring the same before the justice of the peace who 
issued the warrant, and to summon the person, firm, or corporation named in the war- 
rant and any other person who may be found in possession of the said articles to 
appear at the time and place therein specified, which warrant shall be executed and 
served in the same manner as a writ of replevin in civil cases before such justice of 
the peace. 

The hearing upon such complaint shall be at the time and place specified in the 
warrant, which time shall not be less than 5 days nor more than 15 days from the 
return day. Upon the hearing the complaint may be amended, and any person, firm, 
or corporation that appears and claims the said article or articles shall be required to 
file ira claim in writing, and either party may demand a trial by jury and appeal may 



703 March 10, 1016 

be taken as in other civil cases. If upon such hearing such article is condemn ed as 
being adulterated or misbranded or of a poisonous or deleterious character within the 
meaning of the said act, or as made, labeled, or branded contrary to the provisions of 
the said act, or as not conforming to the definition or analytical requirements provided 
in the said act, the same shall, unless an appeal be taken, be confiscated and disposed 
of by destruction or sale, as the justice of the peace may direct, and the proceeds 
thereof, if sold, less the legal costs and charges, shall be paid into the treasury of the 
State of Wyoming, but such article shall in no instance be sold contrary to the provi- 
sions of the said act: Provided, hou-erer, That upon the payment of the cost of such 
proceedings and the execution and delivery of a good and sufficient bond to the State 
dairy, food, and oil commissioner for the use of the State of Wyoming to the effect 
that such articles shall not be sold or otherwise disposed of contrary to the provisions 
of the said act the justice of the peace may by order direct that such articles be deliv- 
ered to the owner thereof. Whenever the State dairy, food, and oil commissioner or 
his deputy shall have ground for suspicion that any article of food found in possession 
of any person, firm, or corporation is adulterated or misbranded within the meaning 
of the said act, he may, without a warrant, seize such article of food and make an. 
inventory thereof and shall leave a copy of such inventory with the party holding 
such suspected goods and tag the same "suspected," and he shall notify in writing 
the person, firm, or corporation in whose possession it may be found not to, offer the 
same for sale or sell or otherwise dispose of the same until further notice in writiug 
from the commissioner. 
