Early Journal Content on JSTOR, Free to Anyone in the World 

This article is one of nearly 500,000 scholarly works digitized and made freely available to everyone in 
the world by JSTOR. 

Known as the Early Journal Content, this set of works include research articles, news, letters, and other 
writings published in more than 200 of the oldest leading academic journals. The works date from the 
mid-seventeenth to the early twentieth centuries. 

We encourage people to read and share the Early Journal Content openly and to tell others that this 
resource exists. People may post this content online or redistribute in any way for non-commercial 
purposes. 

Read more about Early Journal Content at http://about.jstor.org/participate-jstor/individuals/early- 
journal-content . 



JSTOR is a digital library of academic journals, books, and primary source objects. JSTOR helps people 
discover, use, and build upon a wide range of content through a powerful research and teaching 
platform, and preserves this content for future generations. JSTOR is part of ITHAKA, a not-for-profit 
organization that also includes Ithaka S+R and Portico. For more information about JSTOR, please 
contact support@jstor.org. 



PUBLIC HEALTH REPORTS 



VOL. 29. MARCH 27, 1914. No. 13 

QUININE PROPHYLAXIS FOR MALARIA. 

By H. R. Carter, Senior Surgeon, United States Public Health Service. 

Among the methods of preventing malarial fevers (chills and 
fevers, bilious fever) the use of quinine ranks high. It is not so 
good a method as getting rid of malaria-bearing mosquitoes where 
this can be done economically, but in many communities this is 
impracticable, at least for the present. It is not so good as good 
screening carefully watched, but this, too, will not be used generally 
in rural communities. Frequently it can not be. 

The use of quinine to prevent malaria is practicable now every- 
where and by almost everyone, and it is efficacious. A farmer may 
not be able to drain and clear his land so as to get rid of mosqui- 
toes. He may not be able to screen his house and keep his screens 
in order, but he will always be able to buy the amount of quinine 
which will protect his family from fever, especially as it may take 
no more to prevent fever than it would to cure it; maybe less. 

The use of quinine to cure malarial fevers has been known for a 
long time and its use for this purpose is very general. It has been 
used to prevent them also for quite a while (the first notice that I 
have of it is in 1847) and of late years has been extensively so used, 
but nothing like so generally as its use to cure. It has been used 
systematically since 1902 by the Italian Government to prevent 
malaria, not much at first, but increasing its use as its good effects 
were seen. What the results were we shall see later. So good were 
they in Italy that its use as a preventive extended to other countries 
similarly situated; i. e., highly malarious farming countries. Greece, 
Algeria, and a number of other countries have tried this method and 
with good results. 

It is nowise unknown in our Southern States. Dr. McMullan, 
of Elizabeth City, N. C, told me that when a young man — when 
malaria was far more severe in North Carolina than it is now — he had 
four attacks of what is known there as hemorrhagic malarial fever 
(the "blackwater fever" of the British writers) and that he had 
felt pretty sure that if he had another it would kill him. As he suf- 
fered every year from malarial fevers he had thought his chance of 
53 (741) 



M;irc:!i 27, 1014 742 

another attack (of blaokwater fever) good the next season. He 
began then and for a number of years took 5 grains of quinine a day, 
from the beginning of summer until November. He had no more 
chills or fevers. He took these small doses of quinine to prevent 
another attack of blackwater fever and escaped both it and the 
chills and fever which he had been accustomed to having. Capt. 
Laughinghouse, of Greenville, N. C, tells me that when he took 
charge of the convicts of the State malarial fevers had been very 
prevalent and very severe among them every year and that before 
the sickly season began he had a number of pills made containing, 
among other things, 2 \ grains of quinine each. One pill was taken 
twice a day by each man. The convicts were, for the years he had 
them, the freest from fever of any body of people of the same number 
in the community. Miss Margaret Brown, of George, !N. C, by the 
systematic use of quinine as a preventive has greatly lessened the 
malaria among the school children at that place. Her results are 
reported as excellent. She is, I think, the first in North Carolina 
who has systematically tried to follow the Italian method of quinine 
prophylaxis and deserves the credit of a pioneer. 

This method can probably be used in any community anywhere in 
the United States. It has been used successfully to a small extent. 
Let us see, then, whether it should be used generally and, if so, what 
its use promises. 

First, we must see if it is efficient and whether it can generally be 
depended on to prevent malaria. If it is only occasionally successful 
it, isn't worth trying. 

Second, we must see if taking it in the doses and for the long time 
necessary for success does harm to those taking it. If so, it may not 
be advisable to take it — depending on how much harm it does. 

Third, we must see whether it causes much discomfort. 

(1) 7s quinine efficient to prevent malaria? — Giving a small number 
of instances like those I have cited is not convincing because we 
know that with some people chills stop of their own accord; that in 
some years fevers are less prevalent than in others, and my instances 
may have been of such people or have fallen in such years. For- 
tunately there is an experiment on a scale so large and continued for 
so long a time that errors from chances of this kind are eliminated. 

Italy is a country which has been malarious — much of it highly 
malarious — for some centuries. In Italy quinine has been U6ed sys- 
tematically as a preventive, at first on a small scale and then on a 
large one, for the past 10 years, and this was the only measure to 
prevent malaria which was used for the people we would consider, 
the farming people of Italy. Also a fairly accurate account was 
kept of the amount of malaria before and after the r.se of this pre- 
ventive measure. The record of deaths especially runs back many 



743 March 27, 1914 

years and was very accurately kept. It seems, then, if the results 
in 10 years' trial, over a large country with as bad or worse malaria 
than the United States, show a large diminution of the disease then 
this method should be efficient in the United States also. 

The Government of Italy, in 1902, began the sale of quinine at 
cost price to communes and towns, which agreed to distribute it 
gratuitously to those unable to purchase it. In 1903 these political 
units, towns, etc., were obligated to issue it gratuitously to poor 
people for prophylactic use. In 1904 it was ordered to be given to 
all working people for use in this way. 

Now as to the results. Dr. Olli's statistics, from which all that 
follows is taken, give the average number of deaths per year for the 
10 years preceding 1902 in all Italy as 14,048. For the nine years 
following 1902 — i. e., 1903 to 1911, inclusive — the average number 
of deaths was 5,435 — between one-half and one-xhird of the other. 
If we take the average of the last five years, we have only 3,853 
deaths— not much over one-fourth of the former number. This com- 
parison of the death rate ought to indicate some of the change that 
has taken place in the malarial conditions in Italy since quinine pro- 
phylaxis has been used. Let us look at statistics showing the change 
in the prevalence of the disease — that is, the number of cases. The 
number of patients from the Agro Romano, a very malarious dis- 
trict outside of Rome, treated in 1900 was (Celli again) 11,653. 
Some quinine was used in this district in 1901 and the number fell 
to about 8,000, but for the nine years ending in 1911, during which 
it was systematically given, the average number of cases was 3,603; 
for the last five years, 2,974. 

Now compare these figures : The deaths from malaria in Italy reduced 
from 14,048 per year to 5,435 per year and then to 3,853 per year 
for the last five years. The cases of fever from one section reduced 
from 11,653 per year to 3,603 per year and then to 2,974 per year for 
the last 5 years. 

There is no question that there has been a very great diminution 
in the amount of malaria among the farming people of Italy since 
the introduction of quinine prophylaxis. As no other means have 
been taken to prevent malaria among these people this reduction 
must be ascribed to the quinine taken as a preventive. Note, too, 
that it is a progressive reduction — increasing as the people learn its 
value. 

The Italians living in malarial districts do not all take the quinine. 
To do so is not compulsory. It is simply offered them free, and 
if one may judge by our experience on the Isthmus it is taken 
rather freely where malaria is bad and very little where it is mild. 
If the quinine taken made the diminution shown, that diminution 
would have been greater had the quinine been taken by everyone. 



March 2T, 1914 744 

This is shown in the penal agricultural colony at Castiadas, where 
the quinine was given under orders. The cases of malaria in 
1904, 1905, and 1906, when no quinine was given for prophylaxis, 
were 76 per cent of the force. In 1911 — after four years use — there 
were 5 per cent — less than one-fifteenth as many. So in the Army — 
where men are under discipline and quinine is taken under orders. 
In 1902 the attack rate of malarial fever in the Army was 27.5 per 
cent; in 1911 it was 4.9 per cent of which over 3 per cent were re- 
lapses of old cases. 1 These last two show what can be done by 
quinine in the prevention of malaria. 

Similar results are reported from Greece and Algeria, but figures 
would simply repeat more or less what is given for Italy. The use of 
quinine has been successful at Lagos (McGregor), Brazil (Chagas), and 
Demarara (Ozzard), and other places. In Formosa and German East 
Africa as good results have been obtained by the Japanese and Ger- 
mans, respectively, although using a different method of administra- 
tion. I think, then, we may claim that quinine used as a preventive 
will greatly lessen the number of cases of malaria. 

(2) Used as a preventive, is quinine injurious to those taking it? — 
No such effects are reported from Italy or Greece, or any other place 
where it has been used extensively and for a long time. In Panama, 
before the reduction of the malarial mosquitoes or the screening of the 
houses, many, I think most, of the Americans took three 2-grain 
tablets of quinine daily for the first two or two and one-half years. 
This was done the whole year, for the malarial season there is 1 2 
months, and there was no report or complaint of injury caused by 
the practice. It was not done universally — but it was very gen- 
erally done by the higher officials. The quinine was passed around 
at the mess tables at Ancon Hospital as regularly as the biscuits, 
and there practically everyone took it. 

It was claimed on theoretical grounds that when those who had 
been taking quinine in small doses did develop malarial fever they 
would be much harder to cure because the malarial parasite would 
have become accustomed to quinine. However this may be in theory, 
I can find no evidence for it in practice. Indeed, Celli states that 
" such fevers as occur are milder and more readily curable by simply 
increasing the dose of quinine to the usual curative dose." They 
certainly are milder. 

Will it induce blackwater fever? That the Italian death rate 
falls from 14,000 to less than 4,000 seems rather to negative that. 
With few exceptions all the men who have reported the diminution 
of malaria from the prophylactic use of quinine also report the 
diminution or disappearance of blackwater fever. None report any 

1 In spite of the implication that quinine prophylaxis was the only antimalarial measure used, it seems 
Improbable that such adjuvants as were available were not also used for the Army. 



745 March 27, 1914 

increase of it. And this, although they recognize the effect of qui- 
nine in precipitating, an attack of this disease. Even those who do 
not regard blackwater fever as of malarial origin asseit "the prophy- 
laxis of malaria prevents the development of blackwater fever." 
(Leishman et al.) 

(3) How much discomfort does the talcing of quinine cause ? — Here 
one can not be so positive. Some people bear quinine less well than 
others. A few can not take even a very small dose. In general, 
however, the dose proposed by the Italians — equivalent to from 5 
to 7 grains of the sulphate per day— can be taken without discom- 
fort. Some can not take this amount without discomfort, yet my 
own observation is that one frequently becomes accustomed to these 
doses of quinine, and, after persevering for say a week, can take them 
without trouble even when the} 7 were annoying at first. The salts 
that are least soluble seem to be the best borne — thus the sulphate 
is better borne than the bisulphate and the tannate best of all. 
This last, however, is weaker in quinine than either of the others. 
One grain of sulphate has about the same quinine content as 2% 
grains of the tannate. The writer is unusually susceptible to qui- 
nine, yet he found little difficulty in accustoming himself to the doses 
taken on the Isthmus and no discomfort after he was so accustomed. 
The tannate he has never tried. 

We have seen that the use of quinine as a prophylactic lowers the 
malarial sick rate and death rate. That is proven. Does it pre- 
vent the infection of the individual or simply the development of 
the infection into a malarial attack? If the former, one need take 
it only when exposed to malaria; that is, in a malarial country and 
during the malarial season. If the latter, one may be infected with 
malaria, although the attack is prevented from developing by the 
quinine. If he stops the quinine then, even when no longer exposed 
to malaria, he may develop an attack from the infection present. 
The latter has been the case often enough to show that in many 
cases the quinine is able to prevent the development of an attack 
from an infection which itself it did not prevent. On this account 
it is advisable not to stop the use of quinine immediately on the 
advent of cool weather or on leaving the malarial district, even if 
one has not had any malarial fever while taking it. To continue 
the quinine for awhile— a month or several months — until it and 
one's natural resistance can overcome the infection is good practice. 

From the last paragraph the question at once arises: Are those 
free from malarial attacks on account of takihg quinine infective to 
mosquitoes? Some of them certainly are. Malcolm Watson, as 
quoted by Ross, Ozzard and others have found a number of "car- 
riers" among such people — in one place 20 per cent of those exam- 
ined — only a small number examined, however. Observations on 



March 27. 1914 746 

a large scale are needed on this subject, and Italy would seem a 
peculiarly favorable place to make them. Yet, since the way qui- 
nine prevents the development of malarial fever is almost certainly 
by keeping the number of malarial parasites below the number 
necessary to produce an attack, the chance of any such (quinine- 
protected) person being a source of infection to mosquitoes would 
be lessened by approximately the proportion in which the number 
of parasites is lessened. Some, too, doubtless, would not become 
infected. The result would be then that those protected from attack 
by quinine prophylaxis would be less apt to be a source of infection 
to mosquitoes than if they had not taken it; some would not be 
infected at all and others would harbor far fewer parasites. This 
also lessens the amount of malaria in the country. As malaria 
lessens, prosperity increases from the increase of strength and energy 
of the people, and with increased prosperity comes land better 
cleared and better drained, screened houses and better hygiene 
generally; an endless chain of betterment. 

It is only in this way — by quinine prophylaxis leading to anti- 
mosquito work — that permanent results can be obtained from it. 
In spite of it there will always be persons infective to mosquitoes, 
some among those who take and are protected by quinine, but a much 
larger proportion among those who do not. So when these measures 
are discontinued the original conditions of malaria will prevail. 

One word should be said as to the administration and dose of quinine 
as a preventive of malaria. There are two principal methods of ad- 
ministration; the one canonized by Koch — large doses at considerable 
intervals ; the other, smaller daily doses as used in Italy. In the first 
method 16 grains are given daily every ninth and tenth day, or eighth 
and ninth day, or even seventh and eighth day if malaria be very preva- 
lent. There are variousmodifications of this — smaller doses at less inter- 
vals, as 8 grains every five days or twice per week. This method and 
its modifications have been eminently successful in the very malarious 
districts of German West Africa and also in the hands of the Japanese 
in Formosa. The dose regarded as proper by the Italian sanitarians 
is equivalent (in quinine content) to about 5 to 7 grains of quinine 
sulphate for adults given daily and half that amount for children under 
10. For the latter they especially' recommend the tannate of quinine 
in 5-grain doses — (2 grains of sulphate about) — made up into choco- 
lates. This is said to be pleasant. It is not especially objectionable. 
The tannate in proportional doses is also recommended for grown 
people who bear the other salts of quinine badly. The writer has had 
no experience with it. The German plan requires less quinine. It 
is more uncomfortable for those taking it — at least if they bear it 
badly. The writer speaks from experience with himself. Plehn's 



747 March 27, 1914 

modification, 8 grains every five days, should not be ill borne, 
however. 

All agree that where malaria is intense a larger dose is required than 
where it is mild. The crew of an American vessel were not protected 
at Tampico by 5 grains daily with an extra 5 grains Sunday, and 
failures have occurred even when larger doses have been given. 
Yet the consensus of observation is that the development of malarial 
fever can be prevented in the great majority of people by a dose of 
quinine which they can take without undue discomfort. Some 
people, indeed, can not take quinine at all, but they are very few. 
[n North Carolina and probably in other Southern States the writer 
considers about the same malarial conditions to prevail as in Italy, 
and from 5 to 7 grains per day as sufficient for adults according to the 
intensity of the malaria in the district. Were we only considering 
prevention of malaria in people who were not infected it would not be 
necessary to begin taking quinine until the "malarial season" 
begins — June 1 or June 15 would probably be early enough, possibly 
even July 1. A considerable number of our people, however, are 
already infected, the malaria keeping over (latent) from the last season 
or maybe longer, and it would be an advantage to them to begin 
quinine, in as full doses as can be borne without discomfort, before the 
first warm weather begins — in April generally. This will quite fre- 
quently prevent the relapses which are so apt to come on in the early 
summer. 

The use of quinine to cure malarial infections, that is, given until 
the blood is freed from malarial parasites, is also truly a means of 
malarial prophylaxis, and one of no small value. Thus used it pre- 
vents the people to whom it is administered from infecting mosquitoes 
and thus communicating the disease to others. This, however, is 
not what is usually meant by the term "quinine prophylaxis " and will 
not be gone into here, except to say (1) that for success it usually 
takes a rather long course of quinine and in fairly full doses, especially 
at first; (2) that the sooner treatment is begun after the beginning 
of the infection the better is the chance of success; and (3) that in 
old recurrent attacks it is much more difficult, to get rid of the parasites 
permanently. 

Summary. 

(1) The use of quinine in small doses is an efficient method for pre- 
venting malarial fever. 

(2) This method is especially adapted for use in a farming com- 
munity where it is not practicable economically to get rid of malarial 
mosquitoes or to properly screen against them. This is practicable 
everywhere, at all times, and by almost every person. 

(3) In malarious States it should be taken in doses of from 5 to 7 
grains per day by grown people, 2 to 3 grains by children— less if 



March 27, 1914 748 

small — during the malarial season, say, June to November. Some- 
what smaller doses will be efficient in places where the malaria is not 
bad. If begun in March or April, it would prevent a certain number 
of relapses. 

(4) In these doses thus given it does no injury of any kind to those 
taking it and does not produce blackwater fever (hemorrhagic mala- 
rial fever) or cause such attacks of malaria as do develop to be more 
difficult to cure by quinine. 

(5) It can be taken in these doses by almost all people without 
discomfort, or with discomfort for only the first 7 or 8 days. In cases 
where it does produce discomfort a smaller dose should be tried and, 
if possible, increased later. If not possible to increase the dose, even 
the smaller dose will lessen the chance of development of malarial 
fever. Craig found 2£ grains per day efficient against tertian and 
quartan infections. The nature of the infections in any locality can 
be found from the physicians. 

(6) The insoluble salts of quinine are better borne — i. e., cause less 
discomfort — than the soluble. The tannate is the most insoluble and 
is said to be the best borne. Made up with chocolate and sugar into 
tabloids it is best suited for administration to children. As the tan- 
nate contains a smaller proportion of quinine than the sulphate, from 
2 to 2\ times as much must be taken to get the same effect.''! 

(7) When insoluble salts of quinine are recommended, it is not 
meant that pills or tablets which do not disintegrate when taken will 
do. They of course are worthless. The sulphate of quinine, which 
is the salt ordinarily used, is probably best taken in 2 or 3 grain tab- 
lets. Drop one of them in a glass of water and if within, say, 5 or 10 
minutes it crumbles, or begins to crumble considerably, it is suitable 
to take. If it does not, it is not. The same test applies for pills. 
In general only soft pills are of any value. Quinine in capsules of 
course is efficient, but is rather costly if bought and troublesome if 
filled at home. 

(8) Cost. — It is more economical for a community to purchase its 
quinine in whatever form used, by wholesale than to get it at retail. 
It might be handled as in Italy. Quinine sulphate is quoted whole- 
sale in 100-ounce lots at 25 cents per ounce in bulk or 33 cents per 
ounce in ounce bottles. It is about 45 to 50 cents per ounce retail. 
Quinine 2 grain and 3 grain tablets should cost very little more than 
the price of the contained quinine. Quinine tannate in tablets with 
chocolate and sugar is offered by one American firm, the 5-grain 
tannate quinine tablets at $4.10 per 1,000 tablets, and the 2-grain 
tablets at $1.80 per 1,000 tablets in 100,000 lots. 

(9) In addition to the use of quinine, whenever it is practicable 
to do so, the house should be screened, brush and high weeds near 
it cut away and pools and wet places drained or filled. If this last 



749 March 27, 1914 

is not practicable wet places and pools should be oiled. The drain- 
age and filling up of wet places is a permanent antimalarial work, 
done once for all. Where they can be done they are far better than 
quinine prophylaxis, which must be continued year after year. 

In a community using quinine prophylaxis there will still be a cer- 
tain number of cases of malarial fever. Some of these will be fail- 
ures of the method, but others, and the majority if it be used prop- 
erly, will be relapses of previous malarial infections from the last 
season. In the Italian army in 1911 we have seen that there were 
304 relapses and 186 new cases to 10,000 men. A certain number of 
these relapses are indeed prevented by quinine prophylaxis, but 
not all. 

Note. — It would appear that in those sections of the United States where malaria 
is present and the people are as intelligent as those in the malarious districte of- Italy 
equally good results can be obtained by the use of quinine in the prevention of ma- 
laria. — Editor. 



CAR SANITATION. 

CLEANSING AND DISINFECTION OF RAILROAD COACHES— A REPORT OF METHODS 

USED AT ASHEVTLLE, N. C. 

By A. D. Fostbb, Passed Assistant Surgeon, United States Public Health Service. 

I have the honor to transmit the following report regarding the 
methods in use at Asheville, N. C, for the sanitation and disinfection 
of railroad cars as carried out by the Pullman and the Southern 
Railroad Cos. 

In the State of North Carolina there is no State law regulating the 
sanitation of railroad coaches, and the measures now being carried out 
were instituted by the railroad companies of their own volition for 
the protection of the traveling public. 

Disinfection of Sleeping Cars. 

Upon arrival in Asheville, as soon as the passengers have dis- 
embarked, the car is shunted to a side track in the railroad yards. 
This track is used exclusively by cars undergoing cleaning and dis- 
infection. On each side of the track is a platform several hundred 
feet long and built on a level with the floor of the car itself. 

The ventilators and windows of the car are tightly closed, the berths 
are taken down, and blankets, pillows, and mattresses are spread out 
so that the formaldehyd gas may have access to the contents of the 
car. When this has been done, three galvanized iron pails are placed 
on the floor of the car, one at each end and one in the center of each 
car. In each pail are placed 500 c. c. of commercial formalin and 250 
grams of potassium permanganate, and the doors of the car are tightly 
closed. The car remains closed for about 12 hours; the windows and 


