Early Journal Content on JSTOR, Free to Anyone in the World 

This article is one of nearly 500,000 scholarly works digitized and made freely available to everyone in 
the world by JSTOR. 

Known as the Early Journal Content, this set of works include research articles, news, letters, and other 
writings published in more than 200 of the oldest leading academic journals. The works date from the 
mid-seventeenth to the early twentieth centuries. 

We encourage people to read and share the Early Journal Content openly and to tell others that this 
resource exists. People may post this content online or redistribute in any way for non-commercial 
purposes. 

Read more about Early Journal Content at http://about.jstor.org/participate-jstor/individuals/early- 
journal-content . 



JSTOR is a digital library of academic journals, books, and primary source objects. JSTOR helps people 
discover, use, and build upon a wide range of content through a powerful research and teaching 
platform, and preserves this content for future generations. JSTOR is part of ITHAKA, a not-for-profit 
organization that also includes Ithaka S+R and Portico. For more information about JSTOR, please 
contact support@jstor.org. 



July 4,1902 158g 

NICARAGUA. 

Weekly reports of conditions and transactions at Bluefields — Fruit port. 

Bluefields, Nicaragua, June 21, 1902. 

Sir : I have the honor to make the following report of the conditions 
and transactions at this port during the week ended June 21, 1902 : 

Present officially estimated population, 4,000. Number of cases and 
deaths from yellow fever during the week, none; number of cases 
and deaths from smallpox during the week, none ; number of cases and 
deaths from typhus fever during the week, none ; number of cases and 
deaths from cholera during the week, none ; number of cases and deaths 
from plague during the week, none ; number of deaths from other causes 
during the week, 1. Prevailing disease, a mild form of malarial fever. 
General sanitary condition of this port and the surrounding country 
during the week, very good. 

Bills of health were issued to the following vessels : June 15, steamship 
Jno. Wilson, crew, 18 ; passengers from this port, 9; passengers in transit, 
none; baggage disinfected, 13 pieces. June 20, steamship Geo. W. 
Kelly, crew, 22 ; passengers from this port, none ; passengers in transit, 
none ; baggage disinfected, none. June 21, steamship Mcaraf/ua, crew, 
19 ; passengers 'from this port, none; passengers in transit, none ; bag- 
gage disinfected, none. 

Bespectfully, D. W. Goodman, 

Acting Assistant Surgeon, U. S. M. H. S. 

The Surgeon- General, 

U. 8. Marine- Hospital Service. 

PHILIPPINE ISLANDS. 

Report from Manila. 

Manila, P. I., May 17, 1902. 
Sir : I have the honor to report that Manila still remains free from 
plague, no cases having occurred during the two weeks ended May 10, 
1902. The smallpox for this period was as follows : Six cases and 2 
deaths. 

Bespectfully, J. C. Perry, 

Passed Assistant Surgeon, U. S. M. H. S. , 
Chief Quarantine Officer for the Philippine Islands. 
The Surgeon-General, 

77. S. Marine- Hospital Service. 

Report of outgoing quarantine for the iceek ended May 10, 1902. 

Manila, P. I., May 21, 1902. 
Sir : I have the honor to transmit herewith report of outgoing quar- 
antine transactions for the week ended May 10, 1902. 

Bespectfully, J. C. Perry, 

Passed Assistant Surgeon, U. S. M. H. S., 
Chief Quarantine Officer for the Philippine Islands. 
The Surgeon-General, 

U. S. Marine-Hospital Service. 

