Early Journal Content on JSTOR, Free to Anyone in the World 

This article is one of nearly 500,000 scholarly works digitized and made freely available to everyone in 
the world by JSTOR. 

Known as the Early Journal Content, this set of works include research articles, news, letters, and other 
writings published in more than 200 of the oldest leading academic journals. The works date from the 
mid-seventeenth to the early twentieth centuries. 

We encourage people to read and share the Early Journal Content openly and to tell others that this 
resource exists. People may post this content online or redistribute in any way for non-commercial 
purposes. 

Read more about Early Journal Content at http://about.jstor.org/participate-jstor/individuals/early- 
journal-content . 



JSTOR is a digital library of academic journals, books, and primary source objects. JSTOR helps people 
discover, use, and build upon a wide range of content through a powerful research and teaching 
platform, and preserves this content for future generations. JSTOR is part of ITHAKA, a not-for-profit 
organization that also includes Ithaka S+R and Portico. For more information about JSTOR, please 
contact support@jstor.org. 



gjy March 29,1901 

there are 15 cases in all at the pesthouse and 75 persons detained under 
quarantine for developments. In nearly every case the infection, ap- 
parently, comes by way of the railroads from Arizona, New Mexico, 
and Texas. One case seen this morning, for example, is a brakeman, 
arrived four days ago from Yuma, where there is or has been smallpox. 
The cases are being well handled as they occur ; and, in my opinion, 
do not endanger either the inhabitants of the city or tourists who may 
come to the city. 

**£ *J> *l£ ^L* *t* *j< ^Lf 

Eespectfully, Hill Hastings, 

Assistant Surgeon, U. S. M. H. 8. 

Smallpox in the District of Columbia. 

Washington, D. C, March 19, 1901. 
Sie : I have the honor to report that since my letter to you, dated 
December 14, 1900, stating that there were 8 cases of smallpox in the 
District of Columbia, 40 new cases have occurred and 32 have been 
discharged. There were, therefore, at the close of the 18th instant, 16 
cases of smallpox in this District, all confined in the smallpox 
hospital. 

Eespectfully, Wm. C. Woodward, M. D., 

Health Officer. 

Smallpox in Anna, IU. 

Anna, III., March 18, 1901. 
Sie: Eeplying to your request of 13th instant, I have to report that 
smallpox first made its appearance here in December last. Owing to 
disputed diagnoses it spread until about three weeks ago when we had 
an official diagnosis by Illinois State board of health, and not until that 
time could we secure compliance with quarantine regulations, etc. 
There have been, approximately, 50 to 60 cases with no deaths. A 
strict quarantines has been in force the last three weeks, and we are 
pleased to say we believe we have it under fine control. We apprehend 
no further danger, but as it is scattered all over the country we may 
have some sporadic cases for a month or two longer. 

Eespectfully, T. Lee Agnew, 

Member Local Board of Health. 

Smallpox in Hudson County, JT. J. 

Jersey Citt, N. J., March 21, 1901. 
Sie: Smallpox in Hudson County, K J., 6 cases in all, population, 
386,048; 2 from Jersey City, population, 206,433; 2 from Hoboken, 

population, 59,364; 2 came from Bergen County, population, . 

All above in Hudson County smallpox hospital, Snake Hill; no 
others outside. All cases confluent; 2 convalescing; 3 critically ill; 
1 dying ; 3 males, 3 females — 5 adults, 1 baby, a female. Last case 
found in Jersey City hospital yesterday. 

Eespectfully, C. J. Eooney, 

Clerk. 


