Early Journal Content on JSTOR, Free to Anyone in the World 

This article is one of nearly 500,000 scholarly works digitized and made freely available to everyone in 
the world by JSTOR. 

Known as the Early Journal Content, this set of works include research articles, news, letters, and other 
writings published in more than 200 of the oldest leading academic journals. The works date from the 
mid-seventeenth to the early twentieth centuries. 

We encourage people to read and share the Early Journal Content openly and to tell others that this 
resource exists. People may post this content online or redistribute in any way for non-commercial 
purposes. 

Read more about Early Journal Content at http://about.jstor.org/participate-jstor/individuals/early- 
journal-content . 



JSTOR is a digital library of academic journals, books, and primary source objects. JSTOR helps people 
discover, use, and build upon a wide range of content through a powerful research and teaching 
platform, and preserves this content for future generations. JSTOR is part of ITHAKA, a not-for-profit 
organization that also includes Ithaka S+R and Portico. For more information about JSTOR, please 
contact support@jstor.org. 



FOUEIGKN AND INSULAR. 



AFRICA. 



Report from Cape Town- 



-Examination of rodents for plague infection 
at East London. 



The following is received from the medical officer of health for Cape 
Colony, under date of July 9, 1906: 

East London. — Week ended July 7, 1906: 169 rodents, of which 26 
were found dead, bacteriologically examined. No plague infection 
found. 

Report from Monrovia — Smallpox. 

Consul Lyon reports as follows: 

During the three months ended June 30, 1906, smallpox was reported 
present, with 15 cases. One of the 3 physicians in the city pronounced 
the disease to be smallpox, while the other 2 declared it to be skin 
disease. All the symptoms, as well as the disfiguring scars left upon 
the faces of those attacked by it, indicate that it was smallpox. 

BARBADOS. 

Report from Bridgetown — Sanitary conditions good. 

Acting Assistant Surgeon Urquhart reports, August 4, as follows: 
Sanitary conditions at this port are good. No deaths from any 
infectious or contagious disease are reported. 

BRITISH HONDURAS. 

. Report from Belize, fruit port. 

Acting Assistant Surgeon Cooke reports as follows: 
Week ended August 9, 1906. Present officially estimated popula- 
tion, 9,000; general sanitary condition of this port and the surrounding 
country during the week, good. 
Bills of health were issued to the following-named vessels: 



Date. 


Vessel. 


Destination. 


Number 
of crew. 


Number of 

passengers 

from this 

port. 


Number of 
passengers 
in transit. 


Aug. 3 






42 
36 






4 






20 


1 









985 


