Early Journal Content on JSTOR, Free to Anyone in the World 

This article is one of nearly 500,000 scholarly works digitized and made freely available to everyone in 
the world by JSTOR. 

Known as the Early Journal Content, this set of works include research articles, news, letters, and other 
writings published in more than 200 of the oldest leading academic journals. The works date from the 
mid-seventeenth to the early twentieth centuries. 

We encourage people to read and share the Early Journal Content openly and to tell others that this 
resource exists. People may post this content online or redistribute in any way for non-commercial 
purposes. 

Read more about Early Journal Content at http://about.jstor.org/participate-jstor/individuals/early- 
journal-content . 



JSTOR is a digital library of academic journals, books, and primary source objects. JSTOR helps people 
discover, use, and build upon a wide range of content through a powerful research and teaching 
platform, and preserves this content for future generations. JSTOR is part of ITHAKA, a not-for-profit 
organization that also includes Ithaka S+R and Portico. For more information about JSTOR, please 
contact support@jstor.org. 



FOREIGN AND INSULAR. 

AUSTRALIA. 
Sydney — Examination of Rats for Plague Infection. 

The following information was taken from bulletins issued by the 
department of public health of New South Wales: 

During the three weeks ended July 15, 1,271 rats were examined 
for plague infection. No plague-infected rat was found. Date of 
last case of human plague May 29, 1909. Date of last case of rat 
plague April 25, 1910. 

BRAZIL. 
Manaos— Yellow lever. 

The American consular agent reported September 16 the presence 
of 5 cases of yellow fever at Manaos. 

Para— Plague. 

The American consul reported September 16 the occurrence of 2 
cases of plague at Para. 

Rio de Janeiro — Plague. 

The American consul general reported September 16 the occurrence 
of 2 cases of plague at Kio de Janeiro. 

BRITISH BAST AFRICA. 
Plague. 

Consul Weddell at Zanzibar reports August 9 : 

Plague continues present in East Africa. To July 29, 34 cases with 
19 deaths were reported at Nairobi and 52 cases with 40 deaths at 
Kismayu. 

CHINA. 

Railway Transportation or Tarabagan Purs Prohibited. 

Surg. Irwin at Yokohama reports August 21: 

The carriage of furs of the tarabagan on the Eastern Chinese Railway 
has been prohibited by the Russian Government owing to the danger 
of conveyance of plague. 

Hongkong — Plague — Plague Rats. 

Surg. Brown reports August 8 : 

During the week ended August 5, 13 cases of plague with 10 deaths 
occurred at Hongkong. During the same period 1,825 rats were 
collected and 17 rats found to be plague infected. 

(1444) 


