Early Journal Content on JSTOR, Free to Anyone in the World 

This article is one of nearly 500,000 scholarly works digitized and made freely available to everyone in 
the world by JSTOR. 

Known as the Early Journal Content, this set of works include research articles, news, letters, and other 
writings published in more than 200 of the oldest leading academic journals. The works date from the 
mid-seventeenth to the early twentieth centuries. 

We encourage people to read and share the Early Journal Content openly and to tell others that this 
resource exists. People may post this content online or redistribute in any way for non-commercial 
purposes. 

Read more about Early Journal Content at http://about.jstor.org/participate-jstor/individuals/early- 
journal-content . 



JSTOR is a digital library of academic journals, books, and primary source objects. JSTOR helps people 
discover, use, and build upon a wide range of content through a powerful research and teaching 
platform, and preserves this content for future generations. JSTOR is part of ITHAKA, a not-for-profit 
organization that also includes Ithaka S+R and Portico. For more information about JSTOR, please 
contact support@jstor.org. 



261 March 8, 1907 

from that port by Acting Assistant Surgeon Frick. The vessel was 
held in quarantine while at this port and the patient ordered to the 
civil hospital of this citv for treatment. 

There were no communicable diseases reported within the city limits 
during the past week. 

Report from Santiago — Inspection of vessels. 

Temporary Acting Assistant Surgeon Infante reports, February 20, 
as follows: 

Week ended February 16, 1907: Bills of health issued to 11 vessels 
bound for the United States. One vessel was fumigated. 

No quarantinable disease has been reported. 

ECUADOR. 

Report from Guayaquil — Summary for month of January, 1907 — 
Smallpox and yellow fever. 

Passed Assistant Surgeon Lloyd reports, February 14, as follows: 

Month of January, 1907: Twenty -two deaths from yellow fever and 
23 from smallpox in Guayaquil; 10 vessels fumigated, 9 persons vac- 
cinated, and 8 immune certificates issued. 

Cases of j r ellow fever are now required to be reported to the board 
of health, and some effort is being made to screen cases. 

On February 8 I was summoned to Huigra, Ecuador, to visit a 
yellow-fever case. I found the patient d3 r ing of yellow fever. Yes- 
terday another death occurred in Bucay from the same cause. I have 
been asked to take charge of the railway company's work of combating 
the disease in Duran. 

GREAT BRITAIN. 

Report from Glasgow — Cerebrospinal meningitis. 

Consul Austin forwards the following information under date of 
February 8: 

Sixty-five cases of cerebrospinal meningitis are reported as under 
observation at the city hospitals. 

22 


