Early Journal Content on JSTOR, Free to Anyone in the World 

This article is one of nearly 500,000 scholarly works digitized and made freely available to everyone in 
the world by JSTOR. 

Known as the Early Journal Content, this set of works include research articles, news, letters, and other 
writings published in more than 200 of the oldest leading academic journals. The works date from the 
mid-seventeenth to the early twentieth centuries. 

We encourage people to read and share the Early Journal Content openly and to tell others that this 
resource exists. People may post this content online or redistribute in any way for non-commercial 
purposes. 

Read more about Early Journal Content at http://about.jstor.org/participate-jstor/individuals/early- 
journal-content . 



JSTOR is a digital library of academic journals, books, and primary source objects. JSTOR helps people 
discover, use, and build upon a wide range of content through a powerful research and teaching 
platform, and preserves this content for future generations. JSTOR is part of ITHAKA, a not-for-profit 
organization that also includes Ithaka S+R and Portico. For more information about JSTOR, please 
contact support@jstor.org. 



FOREIGN AND INSULAR. 



MEASURES TO PREVENT THE INTRODUCTION OF CHOLERA 
INTO THE UNITED STATES. 



HAVRE. 



Surgeon Carter states that the sanitary management of the emi- 
grants embarking at Havre, France, to the United States is very satis- 
factory. The consular officer at Havre, who gives his personal atten- 
tion to the inspection of emigrants, is a graduate in medicine and 
takes much interest in the work, with which his long service at Havre 
makes him very familiar. Both the health authorities of Havre and 
the steamship officials cooperate cordially with the consul. 

No Russians or south Italians emigrate from Havre, and none, or 
very few, from the lower Danube. The emigrants embarking at 
Havre are mostly north Italians, Austrians, and a few Swiss and 
French, with a considerable number of Levantines. 

Inasmuch as no emigrants come from cholera-infected districts to 
embark at Havre, there is no routine detention practiced at that 
port, although some passengers from infected districts, via Marseille, 
are detained at Havre for five days prior to embarkation, and dur- 
ing this time their effects are disinfected. While in Havre awaiting 
passage the emigrants are under the control or supervision of the 
sanitary authorities of the port. 

There is almost completed a new emigrant detention building, in 
which the emigrants will lodge while awaiting passage from Havre. 

The disinfection provided for passengers detained is done by 
means of steam. When the luggage is packed in bundles of con- 
siderable size the disinfection, to be efficient, necessitates long exposure 
to the steam. The disinfection is entirely efficient, however, for the 
work which is required of it. 



CHERBOURG. 



From this port the American Line takes nearly all of the steerage 
passengers. The White Star Line also takes a certain number. 
Cherbourg is a port of call for the North German and the Hamburg- 
American lines. The cabin passenger traffic at Cherbourg is propor- 
tionately much larger than the steerage. No south Italian steerage 
passengers and very few Russians pass through Cherbourg for the 
United States. It is estimated that between 65 and 70 Russians per 
month leave Cherbourg for the United States. 

All of the incoming emigrants are inspected by two municipal phy- 
sicians while in Cherbourg awaiting passage. They are under the 
sanitary and police control of the municipality. At the time that they 

(1641) 


