Early Journal Content on JSTOR, Free to Anyone in the World 

This article is one of nearly 500,000 scholarly works digitized and made freely available to everyone in 
the world by JSTOR. 

Known as the Early Journal Content, this set of works include research articles, news, letters, and other 
writings published in more than 200 of the oldest leading academic journals. The works date from the 
mid-seventeenth to the early twentieth centuries. 

We encourage people to read and share the Early Journal Content openly and to tell others that this 
resource exists. People may post this content online or redistribute in any way for non-commercial 
purposes. 

Read more about Early Journal Content at http://about.jstor.org/participate-jstor/individuals/early- 
journal-content . 



JSTOR is a digital library of academic journals, books, and primary source objects. JSTOR helps people 
discover, use, and build upon a wide range of content through a powerful research and teaching 
platform, and preserves this content for future generations. JSTOR is part of ITHAKA, a not-for-profit 
organization that also includes Ithaka S+R and Portico. For more information about JSTOR, please 
contact support@jstor.org. 



June 8, 1906 604 

been unsuccessful, as the city health officer reports finding little or no 
evidence remaining of a successful vaccination. 

The city health authorities have the case well cared for, and it is 
thought there is little fear of the disease spreading. Transportation 
companies, however, are carrying large numbers of sightseers to and 
from the stricken city; About 80,000 having already visited the place. 

Report from Gulf quarantine, Miss. — Yellow fever on steamship 
Whitehall from Colon — Disinfection of vessel. 

June 4, 1906. Passed Assistant Surgeon Wille reports as follows: 
Two cases on steamship Whitehall arrived May 30, seven and one-half 
days from Colon. After three days observation diagnosis mild yellow 
fever. Cases show fever; disproportionately slow pulse; moderate 
albuminuria and no malaria, after careful and repeated examinations. 
Vessel treated accordingly. 

June 6, 1906. To-day removed to hospital one positive yellow- 
fever case with fever, brachycardia, and albuminuria, making the 
third case from steamer Whitehall from Colon. Last case developed 
five and one-half days after fumigation on entering quarantine. First 
two cases existed on arrival. 

Passed Assistant Surgeon Wille was directed, May 7, to detain the 
steamship Whitehall six full days from removal of last case. Acting 
Assistant Surgeon Mohr at Colon was informed on the same date of 
the existence of yellow fever on the vessel, and enjoined to observe 
great precautions with regard to vessels leaving Colon. 

STATISTICAL REPORTS OF STATES AND CITIES OF THE UNITED STATES, 
YEARLY AND MONTHLY. 

California — Los Angeles. — Month of April, 1906. Estimated pop* 
ulation, 200,000. Total number of deaths 307, including diphtheria 
7, enteric fever 2, scarlet fever 2, whooping cough 1, and 62 from 
tuberculosis. 

Michigan — Month of April, 1906. The total number of deaths 
returned to the office of the secretary of state for the month of April 
was 3,097, corresponding to a rate of 14.6 per 1,000 estimated popu- 
lation. This is slightly lower than the rate for the preceding month, 
14.8, but slightly higher than the death rate for the corresponding 
month of 1905, which was 14.4 per 1,000 population. 

By ages there were 581 deaths of infants under 1 year of age, 213 
deaths of children aged 1 to 4 years, inclusive, and 984 deaths of per- 
sons aged 65 years and over. 

Important causes of death were as follows: Tuberculosis of lungs, 
230; other forms of tuberculosis, 25; typhoid fever, 30; diphtheria 
and croup, 36; scarlet fever, 28; measles, 42; whooping cough, 45; 
pneumonia, 341; diarrheal diseases of infants under 2 years, 50; men- 
ingitis, 51; influenza, 61; cancer, 131; accidents and violence, 157. 

There was some increase in the number of deaths from tuberculosis 
of the lungs, typhoid fever, measles, enteritis, meningitis, influenza, 
and violence, and a slight decrease in the number of deaths returned 
from the other important causes. 


