Early Journal Content on JSTOR, Free to Anyone in the World 

This article is one of nearly 500,000 scholarly works digitized and made freely available to everyone in 
the world by JSTOR. 

Known as the Early Journal Content, this set of works include research articles, news, letters, and other 
writings published in more than 200 of the oldest leading academic journals. The works date from the 
mid-seventeenth to the early twentieth centuries. 

We encourage people to read and share the Early Journal Content openly and to tell others that this 
resource exists. People may post this content online or redistribute in any way for non-commercial 
purposes. 

Read more about Early Journal Content at http://about.jstor.org/participate-jstor/individuals/early- 
journal-content . 



JSTOR is a digital library of academic journals, books, and primary source objects. JSTOR helps people 
discover, use, and build upon a wide range of content through a powerful research and teaching 
platform, and preserves this content for future generations. JSTOR is part of ITHAKA, a not-for-profit 
organization that also includes Ithaka S+R and Portico. For more information about JSTOR, please 
contact support@jstor.org. 



September 20, 1907 1338 

During the week vessels proceeding to the United States were 
granted bills of health, as follows : 

July 24, the British steamship Seneca, with 48 crew, en route 
from Hankow to Boston and New York, via Cebu, was granted sup- 
plemental bill of health after the usual inspection. 

July 26, British steamship St. Patrick, with 38 crew, en route 
from Yokohama to Boston and New York, was granted supplemental 
bill of health. All persons on board were inspected at the hour of 
sailing; manifests viseed. 

RUSSIA. 

Report from St. Petersburg — Cholera situation in Samara Province. 

The following is received from Minister Riddle, under date of 
August 17: 

A notice received from the foreign office states that on August 4 
and 5 there were in the city and Province of Samara 23 cases of 
cholera, of which 6 resulted fatally. 

SIAM. 

Report from, Bangkok — Plague. 

Information received through the Department of State from 
Consul-General White, at Bangkok, under date of July 20, shows 
that there were 2 fatal cases of plague in the city of Bangkok during 
the month of June, 1907. 

WEST INDIES. 

Report from Bridgetown, Barbados — Inspection of vessels — 
Sanitary conditions. 

Acting Assistant Surgeon Urquhart reports, August 31 : 
Week ended August 31. Bills of health issued as follows : 
Steamship Madeirense from Manaos to New York, steamship 
Simonside from Norfolk, Va., to a port in the "United States, steam- 
sip Benj. F. Hunt, jr., from Buenos Aires to Fernandina, Fla., steam- 
ship Camoens from Santos to New York, and steamship Gutrune 
from Santos to New York. 

The Simonside and Benj. F. Hunt, jr., were in ballast; the others 
with cargo; the sanitary condition of vessels, cargo, crews, and pas- 
sengers, good. Total number of crews, 184; total number of pas- 
sengers, 76. 

Sanitary condition of this port, good. No quarantinable diseases 
reported this week for the port or island. 

Report from Castries, St. Lucia Island — Sanitary conditions. 

Acting Assistant Surgeon Maylie reports, August 26 : 
Week ended August 24, 1907. No quarantinable diseases exist; 
sanitary condition of port, good. 


