Early Journal Content on JSTOR, Free to Anyone in the World 

This article is one of nearly 500,000 scholarly works digitized and made freely available to everyone in 
the world by JSTOR. 

Known as the Early Journal Content, this set of works include research articles, news, letters, and other 
writings published in more than 200 of the oldest leading academic journals. The works date from the 
mid-seventeenth to the early twentieth centuries. 

We encourage people to read and share the Early Journal Content openly and to tell others that this 
resource exists. People may post this content online or redistribute in any way for non-commercial 
purposes. 

Read more about Early Journal Content at http://about.jstor.org/participate-jstor/individuals/early- 
journal-content . 



JSTOR is a digital library of academic journals, books, and primary source objects. JSTOR helps people 
discover, use, and build upon a wide range of content through a powerful research and teaching 
platform, and preserves this content for future generations. JSTOR is part of ITHAKA, a not-for-profit 
organization that also includes Ithaka S+R and Portico. For more information about JSTOR, please 
contact support@jstor.org. 



387 February 6, 1914 

reports by physicians, call upon the bureau of tuberculosis for notification of cases of 
tuberculosis reported to the said bureau from such municipality or county. 

Sec. 6. The directors shall be empowered to receive or accept the gifts or donations 
for the benefit of the State sanatorium, and the directors shall, in their discretion, use 
the same for carrying out the purpose for which the sanatorium is established. 

Sec. 7. Each director shall be entitled to receive, as compensation, the sum of $4 
per day while engaged in conducting the affairs of the sanatorium in addition to his 
necessary traveling expenses. 

Sec 8. That all appropriations heretofore made to the North Carolina Sanatorium 
for the Treatment of Tuberculosis and not heretofore received by it is hereby trans- 
ferred to the directors herein named for the purposes herein specified: Provided, the 
annual appropriation of $7,500 for the support and maintenance of indigent patients, 
or such part thereof as the board of directors may deem proper, may be used to help 
to defray the expenses of the bureau of tuberculosis. 

Births and Deaths — Registration of— Compensation of Officers. (Act Oct. 6, 1913.) 

Section 1. That section 19, chapter 109, Public Laws of 1913, is hereby amended by 
striking out all after the period in line 9, to and including the colon in line 16, 1 and 
inserting in lieu thereof the words: "The compensation of local registrars for service 
required of them by this act shall be paid by the county treasurers for registration 
work outside of incorporated municipalities, and by the town or city treasurer for 
registration work in incorporated municipalities. The State registrar shall certify 
every three months to the treasurers of the several counties and incorporated munici- 
palitias the number of births and deaths properly registered, with the names of the 
local registrars and the amount due each at the rates fixed herein." 

Section 2. That section 20, chapter 109, Laws of 1913, 2 be amended by adding at 
the end of the section the following: "Provided further, That for furnishing the United 
States Census Bureau with transcripts of deaths and births the State registrar may 
receive from the Census Bureau such compensation for his service, not exceeding 1 
cent for each certificate, as the State board of health may approve. " 

NORTH DAKOTA. 

Communicable Diseases — Morbidity Reports — Quarantine — Disinfection. (Reg. 

Bd. of H., Nov. 21, 1913.) 

The term health officer as used in these regulations shall apply to and include all 
superintendents of county boards of health, all health officers of cities, all township 
supervisors, and health officials of villages by whatsoever name known. 

1. Notification of every case of any one of the diseases known as smallpox, diphtheria, 
scarlet fever, measles, and whooping cough shall be made in writing to the health 
officer within 24 hours by the attending physician, or any other person who has knowl- 
edge of the existence of such disease, which notification shall specify the name of the 
disease, and the name and place of residence of the person so afflicted. Notification 
of every case of tuberculosis or typhoid fever shall be made in writing to the health 
officer as soon as a diagnosis is made, giving name of the disease, name, age, and 
address of the person afflicted. 

2. If the disease is smallpox, diphtheria, or scarlet fever, the health officer shall at 
once, after receiving such notification, see that the patient is completely isolated 
from all other occupants of the house or building or removed to a hospital for such 
cases. If the disease is typhoid fever, tuberculosis, measles, or whooping cough, 
8 ee section 11 for instructions. 

i Public Health Reports, Oct. 24, 1913, p. 2272, sec. 19, lines 7-12. 
" Idem, p. 2273. 

28 


